 
                           Tekumel Digest, Number 17
 
                           Monday, October 14th 1991
 
            Requests or comments: tekumel-request@ssdc.honeywell.com
                 Submissions: tekumel-digest@ssdc.honeywell.com
             FTP Archive site: eklektik.cs.pitt.edu (130.49.2.135) 
                         in directory /pub/rpg/tekumel
 
Today's Topics:
 
                                  Hirilakte Question
                             Re:  Hirilakte Question
                             Re: Tekumel Digest, #16
                             Re: Tekumel Digest, #16
                            Tekumel material for sale
----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Date:         Mon, 07 Oct 91 14:38:09 EDT
From: Bob Dushay <ROYER%NYSPI.BITNET@CUNYVM.CUNY.EDU>
Subject:      Hirilakte Question

Here's another question for you.  How do the authorities test for
(and prevent) sorcerous tampering of the contests in the Hirilakte
arenas?  Who are these authorities?  Do the clans that manage the
arena hire private sorcerers, or pay a fee for a spell that prevents
magic?   Do the managing clans pay gladiators to compete or do
gladiators pay the arena for the priviledge of competing?  And which
clan manages the arena in Tumissa?  I'm going to run a game this
weekend that features the arenas and I'd like to be accurate, if
possible.
                                            --Bob Dushay

------------------------------
 
Date: Thu, 10 Oct 91 12:06:12 CDT
From: "Brett Slocum" <slocum>
Subject: Re:  Hirilakte Question

The following is paraphrased from page 69 of the Gamescience version 
of the sourcebook:

The Hirilakte arenas are used for duelling to resolve disputes,
as well as gladitorial combat. They are run for a profit for the
Imperium by a few very low status entreprenuerial clans. The arena
supplies the referee, but the temples will be asked to supply
referees for a magical duel.  Duellers must be armed and armored
as close to identically as possible. If one person is quite adept
with a weapon and the other is not, a weapon that neither knows well
is usually chosen. In magical duels, the referees insure that only spells
of identical or nearly-equivalent power are used.  It is cheating
to use any other spell, even to save one's life. The punishment
for violation is death. In a weapons duel (most duels between mages
and priests are usually physical, not magical), cheaters are subject
to criminal charges.

Duels are to a specified level of decision: first blood, surrender,
incapacitation, or death. 

The main purpose of the arenas, though, is entertainment, not resolving
disputes. Slaves, POWs, beasts, nonhumans, criminals, and professional
gladiators are brought in. Private persons, clans, some military legions, 
and the war temples sponser gladiators, and teams of foreign champions
also come to gain honor. Games, athletic contests, and annual ceremonies
of governments, temples, clans, etc. are also held in the arenas.
Only important or highly skilled duellists will be listed in the program.
Minor duels may occur in a small corner away from the main events,
or they may be scheduled for early morning, before the crowd arrives.
Magical duels are always popular, though.

p. 99: (again paraphrasing)
The arenas are open daily during the cool months, once a week in fall
and spring, and close in the hot summers. Gladiators and wrestlers
must obtain approval of the city-ruler or presiding officer (and the
crowd) to kill an opponent, much like ancient Rome, though it is usually 
given. Vanquished foes and their arms and armor become the property of 
the victor, and are generally ransomed back (if the person or his clan
cannot pay, then the person becomes the victor's slave). The winner of a 
duel also gets this priviledge. Ransoms depend on status. 100-500 K for a 
commoner, 600-1000 K for an experienced soldier or low circle priest, 
2000-20,000 K for an officer or higher Circle priest, 5000-50,000 K for an 
aristocrat.  If the loser is dead, the body is ransomed for a tenth to a 
third of the above values.

The clans that run the arenas are the Clan 
of the Scarlet Sash, the Band of Noble Diversion, and the Bright Victory
Clan, among others. The types of non-combat events include footraces,
archery and javelin throwing competitions, acrobatic demonstrations,
and clowns. The game that draws the best is Marotlan, in which four teams
of five players vie to take a golden sceptre back to their home "color".
Body blocking is allowing, but not grappling or weapons.  Teams may ally
themselves with others, and bribing players from an opposing team to join
yuours with promises is legal. Only one team can win and the losers lose
their clothes along with their wager.

Betting is done between the spectators, with the records of the gladiators
and the odds announced by the referee. Gladiators and wrestlers are
equally matched, but POWs, criminals, and slaves may face powerful
warriors or beasts in unequal matches.

You can join one of these clans, but they rank even below slaver clans,
and the profits are not as much as you might think.

The gladiators cannot keep the money thrown to them by the crowd (it is
kept by the clan that runs it), but can place wagers and recieve gifts,
favors from noble women (or men), and invitations to perform at
feasts, etc.  Amateurs are permitted either against the pros, or other
amateurs. The chief referee must be informed first to get your name in 
the program, and you must use the weapons provided by the arena.

As to the specifics of your questions, I would think the entreprenuerial
clans would trade clan and temple obligations and favors to get the
priests and sorcerers to referee. They probably pay a yearly fee to the
temples to provide these people, or exchange services.

I would guess that the clans pay the professional gladiators to compete,
but the fee is small compared to wager winnings, gifts, etc.

I hope this is helpful.

------------------------------
 
From: ccicpg!mhr@uunet.UU.NET (Mark Hull-Richter)
Subject: Re: Tekumel Digest, #16
Date: Thu, 10 Oct 91 10:23:41 PDT

What is your source of information for this discourse on Tekumel magic?
I confess that I have not read the Book of Ebon Bindings, nor all the
source books (although I have them), but I would like to know the
references where I can look this stuff up.  It's good.

P.S.: I have read (and own) both the Man of Gold and Flamesong, and I
don't recall any mention of this in there, especially not in such format
or detail.

Thanks.

-- 
Mark A. Hull-Richter    UUCP:       ccicpg!mhr  In all things, restraint,
ICL North America       Also:  mhr@irv.icl.com    especially with respect
9801 Muirlands Blvd     mhr@ccicpg.irv.icl.com    to posting articles and
Irvine, CA  92713       (714)458-7282x4539        doubly so for flames.

------------------------------
 
Date: Fri, 11 Oct 91 10:15:40 CDT
From: "Brett Slocum" <slocum>
Subject: Re: Tekumel Digest, #16

I'm getting it straight out of the Swords and Glory Player's book put out
by Gamescience. Swords and Glory is the 2nd generation of Tekumel rules,
after EPT. The Player's Book followed the original sourcebook. The Referee's
Book was never published. S&G details the character creation, combat and magic
systems for roleplaying. The list of spells is absolutely fantastic. Very
Tekumel and often very scary. If you ever see it second hand, buy it at
just about any price. It originally sold for $25-30.

------------------------------
 
Date: Mon, 14 Oct 91 10:31:36 CDT
From: "Brett Slocum" <slocum>
Subject: Tekumel material for sale

I have some Tekumel gaming material for sale:

      o  the three original maps from EPT, in color, on thick glossy paper.

      o  Armies of Tekumel: Vol 1: Tsolyanu.

Both of these are long out-of-print. Send your bids to me.  Highest bid 
gets them. 

-- 
Brett Slocum <slocum@ssdc.honeywell.com>
    or <uunet!ssdc.honeywell.com!slocum>
 
-------------------------------------
 
The views expressed in Tekumel Digest
are those of the individual authors only.
 
*********************
End of Tekumel Digest
*********************
