
          Development & Procurement     From:     ftpmail@doc.ic.ac.uk@R11F@MRGATE@WEBCS
                 WEB Mail               Tel No:    
                                        Date:     11-Aug-1993 00:47am

TO:  PEARSE W R


Subject: wings.micro.umn.edu:/pub/tekumel/Digests/051 (get 051)

Date: Fri, 30 Oct 92 17:05:32 CST
From: "Tekumel Digest" <alberti@boombox.micro.umn.edu>
To: tekumel-digest
Subject: Tekumel Digest #51
X-POPMail-Charset: IBM 8-BIT

			   Tekumel Digest, Number 51
 
			   Friday, Oct. 30th, 1992
 
Requests or comments: tekumel-request@boombox.micro.umn.edu
Submissions: tekumel-submit@boombox.micro.umn.edu
FTP sites: rainbow.cse.nau.edu (134.114.64.24) in /rpg/tekumel (uncompressed)
	   potemkin.cs.pdx.edu (131.252.20.145) in /pub/frp/tekumel (compressed)
	   quayle.mu.wvnet.edu (129.71.32.151) in /pub/rpg/uploads (compressed)
 
Administrivia:
---------------

OOPS!

     Sorry about that, folks.  In setting up the mailing list, I 
accidentally routed responses back to the newslist itself, meaning that 
several of you may have received responses to Digest #50 in your private 
mailboxes.  I apologize for the error, and have (I believe) repaired the 
difficulty.  From now on you should only receive the actual Digests from 
this list.

---------------

Today's topics:
                 Mu'uglavyani, Salarvyani activities,  Lexicons
                 More on the situation in Tsolyanu
                 Descriptions of Adventures in Tekumel
                 Further info on Adventures in Tekumel
                 Good versus Evil and "Noble Action"

---------------
On Thu, 22 Oct 92 21:50:35 CDT, Erich R Schneider wrote:

>Bob Alberti updates us on the State of the Empire:
>>The empire is nearly completely embroiled in civil war.
>
>What do the other three Empires think of this? I would think that
>Mu'ugalavya and Salarvya would want to take advantage of the situation
>to settle some old scores; as they say, "When birds fight over grains of
>Dna, both are easy prey to the lurking hunter!"

Professor Barker responds:
The Mu'uglavyani took Pan Chaka back, but couldn't take Do Chaka, as the  
Pe Choi rose to fight them off.  Additionally, the Mu'uglavyani didn't want 
to approach the heavy troops near Tumissa, nor Eselne's hardened army in 
Paya Gupa.

Salarvyani tried to take the Gilraya forest by moving up through Chaigari.
Koyluga troops managed to take Fenul and Ru.  A particularly ill-fated 
mission got stuck in the thick Gilraya forest, then hammered by Hlutrugu 
when they broke out upon the coast.  Finally, some Salarvyani 
mercenaries tried to move north from Ru to Hekellu, but were forced to 
withdraw.

>Also, does TOME plan to do anything with the extant linguistic material?

No plans as yet to republish the linguistic material -- but they could be 
persuaded by fans.

>Does extensive material (grammars, lexicons) exist on the other languages
>besides Tsolyani?

No there are no formal lexicons written for anything else.  I've got some 
notes on Yan Koriani that I wrote around 1946, and collections of notes on 
Liyani, Engsvanyali, Mu'uglavyani, and Salarvyani.  However, with 214 
conjugates of the Salarvyani verb, it may be some time before I attempt 
those!

---------------

On 23 Oct 1992 11:23:17 -0400 (EDT), Bob Dushay wrote:
>Greets.  It's very good to see the digest back up again.  I am stunned
>at events in the Imperium, and wonder if Dhich'une can shoot straight.

Bob Alberti responds:
He's in a tough situation because he is not mobile and has few trusted 
allies.  When Ald and Fu Shi'i were on his side, both were working for 
their own ends and not Dhich'une's.  His most powerful allies are probably 
Vridekka and Jayargo;  big, but not big enough.  He needs a Fu Shi'i-level 
ally whom he can send out to do his dirty work.  All the other Imperial 
Heirs are protected by allies at least equal to Vridekka and/or Jayargo, 
which is why they have been able to survive.

Dhich'une's biggest coup was eliminating Mirusiya in the manner that he 
did.  If Professor Barker's player-character group had not been comprised 
largely of Vimuhla worshippers and Vriddi, Mirusiya would probably still be 
out there in the Planar Wilderness.  Nobody else was interested in rescuing 
him.

>Have any of his rivals been eliminated?

Well, Hirkane....

---------------

From: craigr@esem.crd.ge.com (craig robertson)
>The updates on the situation in Tekumel were just what I was looking for.
>I do have a question. What are the Adventures in Tekumel volumes?
>Scenarios, rules, or other?

Professor Barker responds:
The four volumes of "Adventures in Tekumel" are:

Part 1, Volume 1:  Growing up in Tsolyanu -- create basic Tekumel 
                   characters, guiding them through childhood and young
                   adulthood.  At about age 13 you're ready to proceed to
                   the solo adventures in the next books.

These three books contain ten adventures taking your young character to 
many places in Tsolyanu and around Tekumel.  Set during the exciting days 
of 2364-2365 following the ascension to the throne of Dhich'une the Usurper,
politics and intrigue mix with magic and adventure.  As you survive each 
adventure, you accrue skills, abilities and possibly wealth.  Or maybe 
you're simply happy to live.

Part 2, Volume 1:  Coming of Age in Tekumel (Already released)

Part 3, Volume 2:  Beyond the Borders of Tsolyanu (December release)
                   Adventures:
                   Sea Journey to Livyanu, Hunting in the Kraa Hills,
                   Commercial journey (caravan), Fun in Penom

Part 4, Volume 3:  Early December release
---------------

From: Tom Zunder <tzunder@cix.compulink.co.uk>
>Could someone do a review of Adventures in tekumel 1 and 2.
>I have been playing with the idea of tekumel for some years but due to 
>the itty bitty nature of the stuff have never plunged. As a big Glorantha 
>fan I feel Tekumel could be really up my street.

>I have read the man of gold and the original EPT. Could someone explain
>what A in T 1 and 2 are, source or rules?

Bob Alberti responds:
Adventures in Tekumel 1 is a basic rulebook for low-level character 
development.  Adventures in Tekumel 2 is the first book of solo 
adventures.  Advanced rules are being rewritten at this time to make the 
new version of Empire of the Petal Throne somewhat less complicated than 
its predecessor.

>I am hungry to know whether to plunge..

Give the solo books a try:  They're not just your average solo adventure, 
but are rich with the color and intrigue unique to Tekumel.  They'll give 
you a taste of the game.
---------------

From: Bob Dushay <dushay@NYSPI.BITNET>
Malcome Heath asks about making Sarku-Worshippers the bad guys.
I have not played or run a game where PCs are Sarku worshippers,
but they are not the default bad guys in my thinking.  I believe
the good/bad dimension we seek is found in the moderate/fanatic
dichotomy.  A moderate worshipper of Sarku would not be a villain,
and by the same token, a fanatical worshipper of vimuhla could be,
especially if he advocated suppression of other faiths and overthrow
of Imperial customs and order to advance his/her cause.
   When I first discovered Tekumel, I thought Stability=Good, and
Change=Evil.  I was shocked to discover fans of Stability like
myself were in the definite minority.  I have moved to accomodate my
players, however, and for those who worship Vimuhla, I am providing
villians in the garb of fanatical activists in the temple of Karakan.
   I find the rituals and beliefs of Sarku distasteful, but I believe
I could run a game with Sarku-worshipping PCs--provided they weren't
too fanatical about their faith.  I suspect I wouldn't like fanatics
of any faith as players.
   I believe villians are virtually necessary to provide conflict, and
as any student of literature knows, a story requires conflict.
Sarku worshippers are being branded with Prince Dhich'une right now,
and I believe he IS a villian, regardless of his faith, for
going beyond the boundaries of "Noble Action" in his quest for
the Petal Throne.  I also feel Fu-Shi'i is a worse villian than
Dhich'une.  So there.
   While we're taking surveys, I'd add two questions of my own:
what faiths do players choose, and why; and how many female players
or Digest subscribers are there out there?
