 
                            Tekumel Digest, Number 4
 
                             Monday, June 3rd 1991
 
            Requests or comments: tekumel-request@ssdc.honeywell.com
                 Submissions: tekumel-digest@ssdc.honeywell.com
             FTP Archive site: eklektik.cs.pitt.edu (130.49.2.135) 
                         in directory /pub/rgp/tekumel
 
Today's Topics:
 
                                 Tekumel-digest
                              The Secret of Tekumel
                                    Re: Hello
                            Correction and apologies
                                 EPT material ?
                            Re: The Secret of Tekumel
                               Re: EPT material ?
----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Date:    Tue, 21 May 1991 20:25:16 EDT
From: EJK5@JAGUAR.UCS.UOFS.EDU
Subject: Tekumel-digest

Ok, I've looked over a few things and found out what I needed to know.
Here it is as I've read it in glorious black and white:
The Ito are NOT assassins, they are old nobility who were granted the 
Chalkan Protectorates, mostly officials, priests and soldiers and devouted
to Sarku and His Cohort.
The Black Y are assassins, as are some other clans.  The assassin clans
have clan houses in most major cities, these are all enclosed and you don't
get past the front gate unless you're on business.
The act of assassination is a noble one, the clans will not take on a job
for petty reasons of personal vengance and the like.  Assassination is a 
last chance course, when no other course of action will work, as an example
cited in the book--an elderly aristocrat was being humiliated by a young
snot of higher standing.  The old man couldn't afford the fees for lawyers
that could get him legal satisfaction and he was too infirm to challenge
the other to a duel of honor, so he set his case before the assassin's 
clan, they accepted and beat the living daylights out of the younger guy.
Assassins don't necessarily have to kill you, they can administer a good 
beating, or leave a message to the effect of "back off or you're gonna gt
hurt".  The assassins themselves won't take action against another assassin
on a mission, they sort of work like a combination of the Yakuza and Ninja,
do your job, do it well and don't bother with anyone else.  The majority of 
assassins are worshippers of Ksarul and Hru'u with some who follow 
Sarku and of course the respective Cohorts, assassin clans are all in the 
lower brackets of society.  I don't recommend letting players be assassins,
it makes things to difficult.  The only way I see it working is if the 
entire group is from one assassin clan and they get sent out on missions.
By the way, there are also no non-human assassins, the clans won't take
them or train them.

------------------------------
 
Date: Wed, 22 May 91 16:54:54 CDT
From: Charles Martin <martin@gargoyle.uchicago.edu>
Subject: The Secret of Tekumel

A couple of years ago I had a conversation with one of the Tekumel Games
crowd (I think Jeff Berry but it might have been someone else) who told me
that a PC sorcerer from MARB's group (I think a Livyani---Eolyu or
something like that) had "discovered" the "secret of Tekumel," and flipped
it back out of the pocket dimension and into humanspace again, causing the
"end of the Tekumel campaign."

Obviously, such rumors were greatly exaggerted.  Was there any substance
behind this one?

Charles Martin // martin@cs.uchicago.edu // ngangmaru brujutle!

------------------------------
 
From: Mark Humphreys <cs89mmh@brunel.ac.uk>
Subject: Re: Hello
Date: Thu, 23 May 91 12:11:41 BST

Hi there,

This is just a message to say HELLO.

As you can probably see from my mail address I'm based in the UK. If you
think its hard to get Tekumel stuff in the US, then just try to get it
over here, I've only ever seen 2 stores that stock it!

I have however managed to get hold of the DWP rules reprint and
Volumes 1 & 2 of the sourcebooks (and both novels, although they did
set me back quite a tidy sum).

Anyway, I have been playing in Tekumel with a heavily modified set of 
RuneQuest III rules, as this was the only set of rules that I was 
familiar with to any degree. Does anyone else use RQ (or am I just odd)?

Yours m.humphreys

cs89mmh@brunel.ac.uk <<< JANet address

------------------------------
 
Date: Tue, 28 May 91 11:34:50 -0500
From: "Albatross" <alberti@cs.umn.edu>
Subject: Correction and apologies

   I need to correct myself concerning my comments regarding assassins in
Tsolyanu.  The two primary assassin clans are NOT Black Y and Ito, but Black Y
and the _Whispered Fear_ clan.  The Ito clan and Whispered Fear are both
resident primarily in western Tsolyanu, but the Ito clan is comprised 
of adherents of the Worm God and NOT of assassins.  Their proximity of locale
confused me briefly, but the visitors I had from the Ito clan soon put me
on the right track, and relieved me of the awful burden of Kaitars that I'd
been carrying around by accepting a small payment of _Shamtla_...

------------------------------
 
From: "L.J." Barton <csq29@seq1.keele.ac.uk>
Subject: EPT material ?
Date: Sat, 25 May 91 14:55:45 WET DST

   Hi, I'm new to this so I'm not absolutely certain if this will be
posted to all subscribers, or just the digest administrator:

   What materials are currently available for EPT ?

   I already have a 1st ed. copy of the rules with the maps. I've seen
2nd edition stuff (books 1-3, but no No. 4 ! altho it's mentioned in the
others). Is the Book of Ebon Bindings still available and, if so, where?
Equally, what about the dictionary, etc. ?

  I'd also like to know whether the 2nd ed. material differs greatly
from the first, before I decide whether or not to buy it. Is the extra
material worth the expense ? Have the mechanics been changed at all or
are they stil an "Origional D&D (TM)"-clone ?

                           
                           Thanx in advance

------------------------------
 
Date: Fri, 31 May 91 13:15:53 -0500
From: "Brett Slocum" <slocum@ssdc.honeywell.com>
Subject: Re: The Secret of Tekumel

Well, I recently talked to another player in Barker's campaign
as I had heard this rumor also. He said that there had been a campaign
where the Heroes of the Age fought the agents of the Pariah Gods
to keep Tekumel in its current dimension. The Heroes of the Age appear
from time to time to save Tekumel from its current world-threatening
crisis.

Returning Tekumel to its original dimension is not a good thing, considering
the cataclysm that occured the last time. Also, magic wouldn't work
in the original, probably. 

The Heros had a very narrow victory, especially since they had two of their
number switch sides at the climax. It essentially came down to each party
having a shard of the Egg of the World, one a clever counterfiet. If the
Pariah God party took the real shard through a particular nexus point, 
the wheels would be irretrievably set towards returning to the original
dimension. The Heroes had the real shard.

It is not a well-known fact that the disaster of the fall of Engsvan Hla Ganga
was caused by the climax of the battle between the Heroes of that age, in
which they failed in their mission.

------------------------------
 
Date: Mon, 3 Jun 91 12:22:48 CDT
From: "Brett Slocum" <slocum>
Subject: Re: EPT material ?

>    Hi, I'm new to this so I'm not absolutely certain if this will be
> posted to all subscribers, or just the digest administrator:

It went to the digest. tekumel-digest is a submission address and
tekumel-request is the adminstration address.

>    What materials are currently available for EPT ?

Could someone type up the canonical Tekumel literature list? All my Tekumel
material is packed, preparing for moving.

>    I already have a 1st ed. copy of the rules with the maps. I've seen
> 2nd edition stuff (books 1-3, but no No. 4 ! altho it's mentioned in the
> others). Is the Book of Ebon Bindings still available and, if so, where?
> Equally, what about the dictionary, etc. ?

I'm not sure what you mean by 1st ed. and 2nd ed. There were three printings
of EPT : one boxed by TSR (circa 1975), one perfect bound by Gamescience (circa
early 1980's), and one staple bound with color cover by Different Worlds (circa 
late 1980's). The Sourcebook (Book 1 of Swords and Glory) has had two editions:
one a single volume, boxed, and perfect bound with miniscule type by Gamescience,
and one staple bound (what is the technical term for this binding) in three
volumes (of which only 1 & 2 have been published) by Different Worlds.
As far as I know, Different Worlds is still in business, though they may be
a bit slow. They may have copies of the Book of Ebon Bindings. I have heard
that this will be the next book republished by them, but don't hold your
breath. Their address is (last one I've heard of):

Different Worlds
2814-19th Street
San Francisco CA 94110

Write for a catalog.

>   I'd also like to know whether the 2nd ed. material differs greatly
> from the first, before I decide whether or not to buy it. Is the extra
> material worth the expense ? Have the mechanics been changed at all or
> are they stil an "Origional D&D (TM)"-clone ?

The Swords and Glory Player's Handbook (Book 2) is a completely new
system unrelated to EPT, with very detailed character generation, combat 
and magic systems. The Sourcebook is not game system dependent, as it 
contains details of the Tekumel world, cultures, magic, etc., without 
reference to any game mechanics. This is a veritable gold mine of 
information Tekumeli. Not just the Five Empires are detailed, but the 
minor countries (Tsolei, Haida Palaka, Mihallu (not related the the race 
Mihalli), etc.) and primitive tribes are covered as well. 

For certain, I would recommend the Sourcebook. I really liked the Player's
Book also, but the chances of finding it are slim. The magic system alone makes
the Player's Book is well worth the money.

Any other opinions?

 
-------------------------------------
 
The views expressed in Tekumel Digest
are those of the individual authors only.
 
*********************
End of Tekumel Digest
*********************
