 
                            Tekumel Digest, Number 2
 
                             Friday, May 17th 1991
 
            Requests or comments: tekumel-request@ssdc.honeywell.com
                 Submissions: tekumel-digest@ssdc.honeywell.com
 
Today's Topics:
 
                                  Re:  Hi again
                      New Tekumel Book coming out this year
                         Re: New Tekumel book coming out
                         Re: New Tekumel book coming out
----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
[The following was sent to me from another Tekumel list. This list
may merge with this one soon.]

Date: Wed, 15 May 91 10:05:49 -0500
From: "Albatross" <alberti@cs.umn.edu>
Subject: Re:  Hi again

>1) Clans: I'd like to know more about the clans - their internal structure,
>typical and extreme sizes, the number of clans, political and religious
>allegiances, major characters, allianaces etc.

This is probably more detail than you need to explore initially, but here are
some thoughts:  Clans are generally collections of families of a similar faith
and trade.  This varies from clan-to-clan, with the more powerful clans holding
more strictly to their identities (the Golden Bough clan, for instance, is
a conservative Stability clan, meaning its members are generally Hnalla, Thumis
or Avanthe worshippers of high status), while the lower clans are less rigid:
the Black Mat clan which weaves sleeping mats, for instance.  There are members
of the Golden Bough clan who have gone on to worship the Change gods Chiteng
or Hrihiyal, but they are definitely "black sheep" (or "black hma" as the case
may be).  The Black Mat clan has no time for such nicities:  "Just weave yer
accursed mat and shut up!"

As for major characters, I could try to obtain a list of names and stations
from Professor Barker if you would like.  There would be too many to list in
their entirety, as each city has its own collections of power-players in each
clan and temple.

>(rdyiu@cuvmb (bob dushay) has the stuff from s&g on this on a reflex
>database, which he's offered to send me, so anything that's covered by that
>can be safely ignored.)

I'd be very interested in taking a look at this database if it could be made
available.

>2) A random thought on transport - does Tekumel have the wheel? Are carts
>and rickshaw-type conveyances common? What about carried litters? Or do
>people tend to walk everywhere?

Well, the problem is that Tekumel has the wheel, but they don't have a decent
draft animal.  Horses don't exist, and Hmelu and Chlen move about as fast as
a hippo, so although carts are common they are of limited use.  Carried litters
are very* common, but rickshaws haven't been figured out.  And remember, if
your players decide to introduce such a thing, that the various litter-bearing,
litter-building, and transportation clans would strive very hard to prevent
the success of the venture.  They have their livelihoods to maintain, and no
they're not interested in any newfangled ideas, thank you.

>3) Did S&G extend the character classes into other professions, and what
>sort of roles do they occupy in Tsolyani life? What I want here is a feel
>for how things like theft, assassination, spying, etc are carried on. I can
>easily, I guess work something out from a mediaeval Japanese basis but I'm
>not sure how true that would be to the background of the world. Then again,
>perhaps basic things like human nature transcend culture. 

There are few thieves -- their penalty is death, and not even the honorable
death of impalement.  Spying is commonplace, and is not practiced by a "spy"
profession -- the temple of K'Sarul is made up either of spies or time-servers,
and any high-level party (say a Governor's Ball) will be comprised entirely
of people trying to get the goods on each other.  These will be bureaucrats,
politicians, clan elders, etc, all spying like mad.

Assassination is VERY touchy: honor -- the concepts of _lan_ and _bussan_
(honorable and dishonorable acts) is very important, and assassination
is a dishonorable way to kill someone.  Therefore, assassins are rare.  Each
major temple (say a BIG temple in a MAJOR city, like the temple of Hnalla in
Ousenanu) will have a house assassin, but he will rarely be employed, because
once he acts he will hunted down and killed by the two assassin clans.  They
are the Ito clan, located in the Chakan forests on the west border of Tsolyanu,
and the Black Y clan, which is a secret and pervasive clan.  These are the
only two clans for whom assassination is an honorable act.  Unfortunately you
must be born into these clans in order to become a clan assassin, and not even
Professor Barker knows enough about these clans to say what their internal
society is like.  Thus an assassin character would be difficult to play.
And to be found in possession of assassin's weapons -- a Springing Doom or
a Sender Upon the Way -- is also a death penalty.

>4) Back to clans again - there are hints in the rulebook of clans based on
>professional ties as well as blood ones. Do clans have a different basis at
>different social levels? 

As explained above, clans are collections of families, generally with both
religious and professional identities.  These identities vary greatly:  some
clans are "religious clans" (my own Cloak of Azure Gems), while others are
"professional clans" -- various mercantile clans pay only lip-service to a
religious faith.  And again, the richer you are, the better a show you have
to put on.  The poorer you are, the less anyone cares.

> 5) Social ranks - are there any distinguishing marks used to differentiate
> people of different social ranks, like caste marks in India?

Not strictly:  the nation of Livyanu to the southwest uses tattoos or _aomuz_
to specify caste and rank and religion and shoe size and wine preference,
in a pattern and code which has never been interpreted by any other nation
except that the more one has the more important one seems to be.  This is due
in large part to the fact that the nation is very secretive -- you cannot
travel in Livyanu outside the Foreigner's Quarters (more like a Foreigner's
Compound) without an encyclopaedic collection of authorization papers.  If 
you try, the all-encompassing Vru'uneb (secret police) will definitely catch
you and kill you.o

Tsolyanu has no such coding.  The only distinctions are subcultural:  the
Vriddi are proud and arrogant with a distinctive beak-like nose (what would be
called a "Roman nose").  They are Vimulha worshippers and delight in tracing
their lineage back 20,000 years to the Empire of Engsvan la Ganga, which gets
boring after a while but is their basis to claim that THEY ought to be running
the Empire.  Do NOT point out to them that if they were so clever then why'd
half of it get sunk in the ocean.  They HATE that.

Other such cultural hallmarks exist, but are not of major import.

>6) Religion - what sort of relationships exist between the different cults?
>Are there formal allegiances between any of them? Do they have things like
>monasteries? Any idea what sort of day-to-day rituals exist?

Uhm, please:  "cults"?  You don't call them cults.  Very bad.
There are no "formal" inter-religious allegiances, save the brief ones which
lead to short-term mutual advantage and they dissolve as soon as the first
person blinks.  Yes, Stability and Change temples tend to keep to themselves,
but there are enough similarities of interest that you will occassionally see
K'Sarul working with Hnalla or Avanthe with Hru'u.  Not often, though.

There are* monasteries, but they tend to be hard to find.  There is a Hnalla
monastery in the mountains southeast of Sunraya, a Vimuhla monastery west of
Tumissa, and a Thumis monastery out there somewhere.  These are not collections
of chaste sophants moaning litanies to the gods (well, maybe in Thumis' case),
but are centers of power for the temples, magical research, and respite from
the political melting pot of the empire proper.  Part of the reason these
monasteries are hard to find is because they are generally on side-planes
and are only anchored to these physical locations tenuously.  I've been to the
Thumis monastery twice and have yet to determine where its physical location
might be.

>7) "Adani" - how difficult is it for a woman to declare herself "adani", to
>be accepted as such and to maintain this status? (This might be relevant to
>a character in the planned campaign.)

That's _aridani_.  To become aridani is not difficult, except that maybe your
clan might have other plans for you (marry you off to some land-baron or
something).  Barring unusual circumstances, you simply visit your local 
office of the Imperium (located near the governor's mansion or an office of
the Omnipotent Azure Legion [Tsolyani Imperial police]) and declare yourself
Aridani.  It's recorded in the Imperial records, and you can go home and tell
your clanmaster that the local land-baron can go take a flying leap.  On the
other hand if they lock you in your room BEFORE you can declare aridani status,
you're socially considered 'their property' and certainly the marriage is for
your own good.

And of course, everything is greased by gold.  Say you declare your status
with two witnesses and it's recorded on the register.  But you're Golden
Bough Clan and the reason you're declaring _aridani_ is because then, instead
of becoming the fourth wife of the Governor of Sokatis, you can marry that
cute boy of the Rampant Chlen clan who peels the hides off the chlen and
has such big muscles.  By nightfall your two witnesses have been accidentally
killed by inadvertant sword-thrusts to the gut, your records of status are
nowhere to be found, your cute fiance has been trampled by a chlen in the
compound, and your clan is several thousand Kaitars poorer than the day
before.  And you're not aridani and are on a litter bound for Sokatis, with
"bound" having multiple meanings in this case.

---

That's it for now.  Remember these answers are mine, and may not be entirely
correct.  I will pass a copy to Professor Barker this Thursday, and maybe
he can answer a few of them better than myself.

Thanks!
  -Bob

------------------------------
 
Date: Wed, 15 May 91 15:18:40 EDT
From: *Jonny the Z* <zamick@airplane.rutgers.edu>
Subject: New Tekumel Book coming out this year

For those of you who don't know.  This year is special for all Tekumel people
everywhere.  This year (for the first time in a long time) a new
Tekumel book is being released.  It is the Tekumel Bestiary.  There is
no specific release month yet.  I will send more info when I find out
more details.  But soon we will know in even greater detail, just how
deadly Tekumel is.

                              Jonathan Zamick
                  Player of : Halachmaya Destined Savior of Ksarul
                            Lord of Other Realms
                            Scion of clan Cloak of Azure Gems
                            Master of the Nexus Powers
                            Man with overinflated ego
                            6th level Rolemaster character

------------------------------
 
Date: Wed, 15 May 91 14:44:44 CDT
From: "Brett Slocum" <slocum>
Subject: Re: New Tekumel book coming out

This is GOOD news! One thing I am interested in finding out from 
some more knowledgable persons on this list is what exactly is
the current state of affairs w.r.t. Tekumel publications. Who
has the rights to Tekumel? Does Different Worlds still exist?
Do they still sell Tekumel products? Will we ever see book 3 of the
Sourcebook? Are any new rules coming out of the group in
Minneapolis? When can we expect to see ads for "Lords of Tsamra"?

I'm in Minneapolis and I'm still in the dark about this.

Also, Jonny the Z, you mention Rolemaster Tekumel. Care to write
a Rolemaster translation for the Digest? I'm working on the
GURPS Tekumel translation for both EPT and Swords and Glory.
I should be done with the EPT conversion soon.

------------------------------
 
Date: Wed, 15 May 91 18:04:33 EDT
From: *Jonny the Z* <zamick@airplane.rutgers.edu>
Subject: Re: New Tekumel book coming out

I am not the one to write a Rolemaster Tekumel translation, but the person
who GMs the world for us probably would be able to. (Already has for the most
part).  He has a different summoning class.  Handles domination and summoning
much differently.  I will check with him, if I can get all the info he has
typed out for Rolemaster, to type in for all of you.

Jonathan Zamick

 
-------------------------------------
 
The views expressed in Tekumel Digest
are those of the individual authors only.
 
*********************
End of Tekumel Digest
*********************
