 
                            Tekumel Digest, Number 3
 
                             Tuesday, May 21st 1991
 
            Requests or comments: tekumel-request@ssdc.honeywell.com
                 Submissions: tekumel-digest@ssdc.honeywell.com
             FTP Archive site: eklektik.cs.pitt.edu (130.49.2.135) 
                         in directory /pub/rgp/tekumel
 
Administrivia:
The Tekumel Digest is now archived on eklektik.cs.pitt.edu (130.49.2.135),
accessible via anonymous FTP. The directory is: /pub/rgp/tekumel.
 
Today's Topics:
 
                             Past and present Q&A's
                            Recent events on Tekumel
                          Re: Recent events on Tekumel
                                      Hello
                                      Clans
                              Tekumel bibliography
----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Date: Fri, 17 May 91 16:00:33 -0500
From: "Albatross" <alberti@cs.umn.edu>
Subject: Past and present Q&A's

Hi.  Let me introduce myself.  I'm Bob Alberti, and I am participant in
M.A.R. Barker's weekly Tekumel role-playing game.  My character is
Arjai hi Vaisoner, Priest of K'Sarul and member of the Cloak of Azure Gems
Clan.  I hope I can answer your questions concerning Tekumel with some
accuracy.  If not I'll try to pass them to Prof. Barker, or possibly another
of the group on the net (you out there, Geof?) can correct me when I'm wrong.
Tekumel is a big place.

>[The following was sent to me from another Tekumel list. This list
>may merge with this one soon.]
>
>Date: Wed, 15 May 91 10:05:49 -0500
>From: "Albatross" <alberti@cs.umn.edu>
>Subject: Re:  Hi again

And I'd just like to mention that I inadvertently sent this letter in a
distributed form.  If some of the language seems a bit confusing, it's likely
because I intended this as a private response (thus the subject header).
I don't object to it's being distributed (it was my error that this happened),
but want to prevent any confusion.

>From: "Brett Slocum" <slocum>
>Subject: Re: New Tekumel book coming out

> One thing I am interested in finding out from 
> some more knowledgable persons on this list is what exactly is
> the current state of affairs w.r.t. Tekumel publications. Who
> has the rights to Tekumel?

Currently nobody really has the rights to Tekumel.  Prof. Barker has
been defrauded enough times that this is a very hazy area.  Despite that
fact, Barker is extremely happy to speak to anyone concering any ventures
they might undertake on behalf of Tekumel.  The only thing he asks is that
he be informed of what's going on, consulted for his opinion in the event
of uncertainty, and credited appropriately.

> Does Different Worlds still exist? Do they still sell Tekumel products?
> Will we ever see book 3 of the Sourcebook? Are any new rules coming out of
> the group in Minneapolis?

Don't give up hope, but don't hold your breath.  Work on these continues
slowly, but it does continue.

> When can we expect to see ads for "Lords of Tsamra"?

This one has a brighter future.  Professor Barker has completed some 25
chapters, and will possibly* complete the novel this summer.  As for how
it will be published, however...

> The views expressed in Tekumel Digest
> are those of the individual authors only.

Damn straight.  Not only do I get confused a lot and give the wrong answers,
but I run K'Sarul priest for a reason.

------------------------------
 
Date: Fri, 17 May 91 16:02:03 -0500
From: "Albatross" <alberti@cs.umn.edu>
Subject: Recent events on Tekumel

Greetings. I am Arjai hi Vaisoner, Priest of Mighty K'Sarul whose blue
radiance suffuses all with glory, and member of the great Cloak of Azure
Gems Clan, whose dignity is acknowledged by all good persons.

I am here to relate, in brief, the events of the past few months, so that
you may know and understand events of importance within the Five Empires.
These have been times of great change.

In the year 2364, on the third intercalorie day of Vrahama, my
illustrious wife Chitlasha and I were present in the city of
Thri'il to witness the bringing forth of a new Prince of the Empire,
a candidate of the Temple of Hnalla.  Lord So'on hi Tlakotani, son of
Kulesa hi Tlakotani and nephew of the Mighty Emperor Hirkane hi Tlakotani,
the Stone Upon Which the Universe Rests, was revealed as a candidate for
the Petal Throne.

Though this claim met with controversy, as a nephew of the Emperor has a
less traditionally recognized claim on the throne than the Emperor's own
children, the controversy was never resolved.  During the revelry and
intrigue of the Intercalorie Days and the Bringing Forth of the Prince,
the doom of the empire was revealed.

Yan Koryani forces, aided and abetted by large factions loyal to the Worm
Prince, Dhich'une, set in motion an invasion long-planned, and presaged by
the events in that tale which is now known as _The Man of Gold_ in the 
courts and clanhouses where such tales are traded.  In Thri'il, we did not
know of the fate of the rest of the Empire -- we were too busy surviving
ourselves!  My wife and I and some others fled the city by magical means,
only to learn the awful truth.

The Emperor, Hirkane hi Tlakotani, was dead, as were the Royal offspring
Aremala, recently revealed candidate of Avanthe, and my own mighty Prince
Mridobu, servant of our lord K'Sarul.  Dhich'une, Prince of Mouldering Sarku,
had become Emperor, following a Kolumejalim which he had announced, held,
and won by default all on one afternoon.  At his side during this mockery of
Imperial tradition were his allies.. or possibly his masters:  Baron Ald,
Ruler of the nation of Yan Kor to the north, was now High General of Tsolyanu,
and Ald's house wizard, the indisputably mighty Lord Fu Shi'i.

Rereshqala had renounced the Gold from his palace in Jakalla, and Princess
Ma'in was secreted away in Tumissa.  The mighty princes Eselne of Karakan and
Mirusiya of Vimuhla were on the frontiers -- Eselne in the northwest fighting
Mu'uglavyani incursions near Pijena, and Mirusiya lost deep in Yan Kor,
attempting to flank the Yan Koriani forces which had been descending into
Tsolyanu for some time, aided unknown to any by Dhich'une's own grim generals.

My wife and I joined Lord Arumel hi Chankolel and his wife Iena in Jakalla,
and there took stock of the situation.  Dhich'une's preparations had been
thorough, aided perhaps indaverently by the delay to their plans caused when
Harsan hi Kutonyal had moved to cripple Lord Fu Shi'i's Weapon Without Answer.
Every temple and every clan was split by the turn of events -- while Dhich'une
had acted in what was clearly an agressive manner, he had conducted however
abruptly all of the formalities and sat now upon the Petal Throne as Emperor.
Who could gainsay the Emperor?  In addition, the Omnipotent Azure Legion,
arm of the Emperor, was... is "infested" to strong a word?... with his own
brown-robed loyalists.  Dissent to the new "Emperor" was met with merciless
destruction.  This, too, was in keeping with Imperial tradition as one does
not speak ill of the Emperor, and served to further confuse all issues.

So Arumel, a Lord of mysterious origins and great honor and dignity,
worshipper of Vimuhla and hero of many exploits, decided to raise an army
to move indirectly against Dhich'une.  He decided to gather an ecumenical
force and head north to aid Lord Mirusiya in escaping from behind what were
now consolidated Yan Koryani and Tsolyani lines.  In this he played careful
politics, as our action could be interpreted as either an attempt to rescue
the Prince, or to "capture" him for the Emperor.

For many months my wife and I accompanied Lord Arumel and his wife, who is
a mighty priestess within the temple of Vimuhla, and assisted him in raising
an army.  By the month of Drengar we had passed through Thraya, Sokatis and
Fasiltum.  North along the Dry Bay we had crossed, and over the mountains.
We had fought Yan Koriani forces and arrived at Grai, bound for Tleku Miriya
where we had learned Prince Mirusiya had been besieged along with his general,
Karim Missum whose name means "Red Death".

We had done well, raising ten thousand troops representing such divers temples
as Hnalla, Vimuhla, and even Sarku's own Cohort Durritlamish (and these forces
fought more faithfully than even the Qon warriors who accompanied us).  After
a long trek across this arid country, we were all eager to engage the enemy
around Tleku Miriya's base.  Alas, this was not to be.  With great dishonor
and cowardice our forces were infected by Dhich'une's undead allies with
the Plague of Akhouan Mssa, which slays nearly half of those it touches.
Despite our best efforts to forstall its progress, many became infected and
many fled as morale dropped.  Then the final blow was struck -- Yan Koryani
and Salarvyani forces arrived to crush us 'ere we reached Tleku Miriya,
and they delivered a grim package -- a chest containing the severed heads
of Prince Mirusiya and Karim Missum.

Broken, the army was scattered and slaughtered outside of Grai.

Lord Arumel, myself, our wives and companions, escaped towards Tleku Miriya,
intending to sell our lives dearly to avenge the Prince.  We determined,
however, that the remains which had been delivered were clever fakes, and
our hope was renewed.  Arriving within sight of Tleku Miriya, we received
more surprises -- magical sight revealed that this was NOT Tleku Miriya!
All clues pointed to this being an other-planar copy of the city:  a Tleku
Miriya from some alternate reality, shifted in to replace our own.

I was staggered.  The mightiest wizards could open passages between the planes
and move themselves and some goods through.  But to move a CITY would require
a mind-boggling degree of power.  Such power would have no answer... it would
be The Weapon Without Answer.  And as we learned, Lord Fu Shi'i had indeed
restored his blighted device to operation.

Prince Mirusiya might yet live -- such an inter-planar transfer would have
to be a swap.  The imbalance of any other course of action on that scale would
have been even more unbelievable, and dangerous to the perpetrator.

So we set off.  I will not relate to you our adventures across the many planes.
They are inhospitable and do not bear easy description.  Let us say only this:
in the end we came to a place with no light.  And in this benighted place,
upon a plane of reality so small a soldier could march across it in one day,
were there day, we found the city of Tleku Miriya deposited on its side in
a valley.  Naked, we arrived and faced the soldiers of Mirusiya's army, who
were alert following repeated demonic attacks by Dhich'une's more hideous
allies.  Through words and signs we made known to them that despite our
appearance we were allies of the Prince, and subsequently met that mighty,
and led he and his army back across the planes.

We arrived in Tleku Miriya upon our home plane, to the bright light of day and
the surprise of the Yan Koryani garrison there.  Furious at their long abuse,
Karim Missum's Army of Red Devastation reduced the city, and although they were
lowly Milumaniyani tribespeople and Yan Koryani soldiers, still their cries of
anguish did unsettle the nerves.

Finally we set forth.  The day is now the first of Halir 2365, high summer.
Although our course took unexpected turns, we succeeded in our mission to
return Prince Mirusiya to Tsolyanu.  Even now we approach Sunraya, our troops
hungry and desperate after the long march south.  Upon yonder hill, Yan
Koryani forces in emerald green mingle with Tsolyani troops in the brown of
Lord Sarku's Legion of the Worm, awaiting the word to attack.  And past
them, barely visible through the dust, a mighty device upon a wagon:  it is
the Weapon Without Answer and its operator is Lord Fu Shi'i.  Soldiers cry
for Kadarni battles of honor before the melee begins, and generals confer
before their tents.  Prince Mirusiya stands proudly at the fore of his meagre
army and plans strategy.  The battle will soon be joined and we will face
Fu Shi'i's Weapon, and try once again to find an answer.

------------------------------
 
Date: Fri, 17 May 91 16:20:51 CDT
From: "Brett Slocum" <slocum>
Subject: Re: Recent events on Tekumel

Wow!

Many months ago, I had heard a rumor that Mirusiya was Emperor. I never
thought it would be like this!

I'm glad I've maintained my GURPS Tekumel campaign in the past, during
the early stages of the war with Yan Kor. 

You turn your back for a few years and things sure change.


------------------------------
 
Date:     Fri, 17 May 91 22:08:37 +0100
From: advent%ukc.ac.uk@pucc.PRINCETON.EDU
Subject:  Hello

  This is really just a courtesy message as probably I won't be too much help
to anyone,at least till next academic year when(hopefully) I get my campaign
running.In basic terms I got tekumel too late for S&G,though I've had a pretty
good go at scraping up what else I could find:the different worlds sourcebooks,
their reprint of EPT,and the two novels(It took me 3 years to find Flamesong).
Thus mainly I'm going to sit here and siphon off any information that comes
past,I'm also more than interested in just about everything Brett Slocum
expressed an interest in in digest 2,i.e. is anything else comming out?As I
haven't got any rules systems to use apart from the EPT ones I'm going to
be using GURPS(One of the reasons why I'm very glad that this list got set up
I was going to mail Brett Slocum and ask for ideas anyway,after reading the
net for about a year or so,and finally deciding that I wanted to get Tekumel
going...).I've already got a lot of basic thing sorted out vaguely,my biggest
problem is warping the Magic/Psionic systems to conform to the sourcebooks'
and novels' treatment of magic(I'm a bit too much of a perfectionist),especially
with reguard to Nexus gates,planes,time travel,the limitations of Psionic
 Magic,etc(I'll stop before things go too far).Also the set ups for non-human
 races
and so on,not that I intend to let players play non-humans for a good while,
the background and Tekumeli mindset will be difficult enough to start with.
Anyway enough of my problems,I'll have a go at commenting on what has been said
so far.
  On the subject of rickshaws:Whilst cultural inertia(all too common in
 Tekumel)might slow the introduction of such things,possibly another explanation
 would
be the lack of very efficient bearings,considering the scarcity of very hard
metals:whilst greased wooden axles in wooden surrounds may be good enough for
Chlen carts (Lets face it,virtually nothing stops a Chlen),it may not work too
well on other things(sounds a little implausible even from here).
  On Assasin Clans:As I remember(I read sourcebooks far too much),there are
actually more than two assassin clans,and I don't remember the Ito being one,
though they may well be(And I'd be very interested if they were,you don't often
get assassin clans in the Very High bracket).

Since the digest is hardly moving yet there isn't much more to say,just thanks
to anyone who helps get my campaign going,and lets see if we can get some
more discussion flowing(Though hopefully not as much as the Ars Magica list:
25 messages in one day,I can barely cope....)

Piers
advent@ukc.ac.uk(Adventure gaming society)
jprb@ukc.ac.uk(Me)

------------------------------
 
Date:    Mon, 20 May 1991 16:24:04 EDT
From: EJK5@JAGUAR.UCS.UOFS.EDU
Subject: Clans

Hmmmm, Ito clan runs assassins eh?  I'll have to bring this up with my
GM.  I (and some other people) have characters who are Ito clansmen,
although I've never had to use an assassin I did have to contend with one
who was sent to get me.  I never figured out why, he had apparently been
magiced up so that when I dominated him, he croaked and I couldn't even
make him undead to pump him for info.  As far as Ito goes, we have:
Chakallan hiIto, fighter, has a fief (I'll look up the hex number) and
was in the process of raising a legion (the Copper Skulls?) and has a 
considerable ammount of monitary and polical pull.
Arakesh hiIto(mine),sorcerer-priest, more interested in gaining sorcerous
knowledege and ability to advance myslelf in the ranks than getting a cushy
temple post.
I'll get a list of other characters if you want them, somebody could always
use them as NPCs or something.
As for the clan thing, how about a followup? I know that most of the generals
of the Sarku-funded Imperial legions are from the Domed Tomb clan-the 
Khanuma family line.

------------------------------
 
From: anthony@cs.pitt.edu (Anthony Kapolka)
Subject: Tekumel bibliography
Date: Tue, 21 May 91 15:31:26 EDT

Do you have a comprehensive Tekumel bibliography?  That would be the first
thing I'd like to see (I only have the first rule book, myself).

Anthony

 
-------------------------------------
 
The views expressed in Tekumel Digest
are those of the individual authors only.
 
*********************
End of Tekumel Digest
*********************
