 
                           Tekumel Digest, Number 31
 
                           Monday, January 27th 1992
 
Requests or comments: tekumel-request@ssdc.honeywell.com
Submissions: tekumel-digest@ssdc.honeywell.com
FTP sites: eklektik.cs.pitt.edu (130.49.2.135) in /pub/rpg/tekumel (Down)
           rainbow.cse.nau.edu (134.114.64.24) in /rpg/tekumel (uncompressed)
           potemkin.cs.pdx.edu (131.252.20.145) in /pub/frp/tekumel (compressed)
           quayle.mu.wvnet.edu (129.71.32.151) in /pub/rpg/uploads (compressed)
 
Today's Topics:
 
                          Digest Index of Issues 21-30
                               More campaign notes
                               Re: Tekumel Digest, #29
----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Date: Fri, 24 Jan 92 13:05:00 CST
From: "Brett Slocum" <slocum>
Subject: Digest Index of Issues 21-30

TEKUMEL DIGEST INDEX
Volumes 21-30 Inclusive
24 Jan 92

N.B.:  Digest addendums are listed as A#, where # indicates order of release.

Issue
21    The beggar in the market says...

22    Re: Tekumel Digest, #21

23    Answers from M.A.R. Barker

24    S & G animal statistics

25    Questions about Tekumeli creatures

26    Another information request
      Tekumel animal habitats

27    Tekumel Digest Index (v.1-26)

28    Tekumel miniatures?
      Campaign Descriptions

29    Word from Tsolyanu
      Magical books
      magic items and books

30    Campaign
      Combining GURPS and the S&G magic system

------------------------------
 
Date: Fri, 24 Jan 92 13:03:51 CST
From: "Brett Slocum" <slocum>
Subject: More campaign notes

The events in my recent GURPS PBEM campaign were as follows:

A group of Stability worshippers (a couple from Karakan, a couple from Belkhanu)
are called to the temple of Thumis in Jakalla. An expedition to the underworld
was mostly lost just after having found an ancient layer, possibly Llyani.
The Llyani never made it to Jakalla, at least in current theory. Nexus points
are thought to be the culprit. Another mission is being sent to find the
remnants of the other expedition. Since nexus points are possibly involved
the Belkanu temple was asked to send an expert in nexus magic. Karakan was
asked to send some fighters (the Thumis temple decided that they needed 
real muscle, and stopped pretending they could do this all on their own).
The group was joined by two fighters, one a fencer, the other a sailor, who 
were hired from the foreigner's quarter. A priestess of Thumis is leading,
plus a Thumis scholar of Llyani and a Physician to tend to any survivors of
the previous mission.

They walked to the City of the Dead, bribed the tomb police (or did they
just avoid them? i forget). Once down in the underworld, they had to
scuttle through a huge temple of Hry'y, and fought and defeated a couple 
of Vimuhla warriors. They are resting at the top of a staircase that
leads to the 4th level.

At this point I handed the campaign over to another GM, but he hasn't
proceeded yet.

------------------------------
 
Date:         Sat, 25 Jan 92 07:11:21 EDT
From: Bob Dushay <ROYER%NYSPI.bitnet@CUNYVM.CUNY.EDU>
Subject:      Re: Tekumel Digest, #29

Brett has requested we send our campaign summaries to the
digest.  My gaming time is very limited, so I have only run two
games since I've started reading the digest, but here is my
campaign summary.  The current plot should come as no
surprise to those who have been following my requests for
information.

"Biter" is an Ahoggya sometimes gladiator in the Hirilakte
arena of Tumissa.  He is crude and obnoxious even for an
Ahoggya, and by Tsolyani standards he is just this side of
impalement.  He earned his name because he craves the taste
of his foes' flesh, and he occasionally tries to take mouthfuls of
his opponents in the arena.  He is tolerated only because the
worst criminals are punished by a session with "Biter" rather
than another gladiator.

"Biter" was hired by Niqil hiLatayal, a tomb robber of the
Clan of the Nighted Tomb, to go on a dangerous expedition
through the Tumissan underworld.  Niqil had found a an
unlooted shrine, but had lost two companions to a trap.  He had
also asked for advice from his clan-father, Tsugash hiLatayal, a
man so accomplished at gleaning income from the wealthy
deceased that he insisted on being called "Yirautomringudali-
koi" ("the great High Lord of Thieves") by those in the know.
Tsugash was worried about the implications of this trip, enough
so to come out of his retirement from active procurement trips.
The biggest wrinkle was timing: a rich, unlooted shrine needed
to be hit immediately, but it was a few days before the "Feast
of the Conflagration of All", and the priests of Chiteng would be
prowling the catacombs to find sacrificial victims.  Tsugash told
his clan-son to find extra muscle from outside of the clan,
preferably clanless warriors, so that they could vanish without
trace if necessary.  Meanwhile, he went to the Temple of Ksarul
(he has been a generous, and semi-clandestine contributor for
many years) to hire a sorcerer under an oath of silence.  He
was able to obtain the services of one Ptak-t'chi, a Pe Choi
sorcerer.

The party was captured by Nyem hiMerrugan, a sorcerer-
priest of Chiteng, but were able to escape via the use of an eye
that Tsugash had concealed, with the loss of a few of the clan's
bully-boys.  Two more bully boys were lost to a Kayi ambush.
Finally, the much reduced party found the shrine.
The shrine, however, was an enormous trap set up by a
creature from another plane.  The K'qaq'kkh (the closest
Tsolyani can come to pronouncing its true name) is a
horrendous creature resembling an enormous spider with iron
claws.  The K'qaq'kkh had come to our plane on its own, and
had been trapped in an extradimensional trap set in Livyanu.
The sorcerer who found it was unprepared, and the K'qaq'kkh
escaped.  It has lived in several underworlds preying on those
creatures that stumble into the traps it sets.  It is looking for
certain essences distilled from the intelligent beings it captures
to take back to its home dimensions.
The party was able to obtain the idol, fighting through a
score of Mrur, but Niqil disappeared during the height of the
battle.  The only survivors to return to the surface were the
Ahoggya, the Pe-Choi, and the wiley Tsugash.

Ptak t'chi returned to his temple.  "Biter" was hired by the
handler of Nammilu hiTektissa, a gladiator who won six
challenges in the ring.  Nammilu was going to fight Torg, a
N`luss barbarian who is new to Tumissa.  Nammilu's handler
was worried that the new N'luss may be tougher than he looks,
so he chose a training opponent who would be very hard to
beat.

"Biter" was pleased by the training session, and went to the
arena to watch Nammilu fight (and to bet all of the money he
earned by training him).  Nammilu was doing okay, and few
people were betting on Torg.  However, one well-dressed man
took most of the bets for Torg.  In the middle of the fight,
Nammilu suddenly seemed to slow down and get tired. Torg
handily beat him, and as nobody was able to meet Torg's price
for Nammilu's redemption, Nammilu became Torg's slave.
"Biter" suspects there was sorcerous interference in the fight,
and he especially suspects the well-dressed man who won all
that money.  He has done a little investigating with the help of
his comerade, Ikt-P'than, a Pe Choi warrior.  He has found that
the well-dressed man is a servant of J'heris hiLammammu, of
a high lineage of the Sword of Fire Clan. J'heris lives in a villa
outside of Tumissa and is obsessed with the arenas, and
especially in (illegal) combats between different creatures, such
as...an Ahoggya and a Feshenga?

Incidentally, Brett asked about new magic items.  Petrul,
J'heris's servant, secretly owns an Eye of Immediate
Exhaustion.  This eye causes its target to become so fatigued as
to be virtually unable to hold a weapon or keep his/her eyes
open.  It has a short range of about five meters, and its effects
have a duration of about five minutes--if the target can be
kept awake (by constant slapping, shaking, or being involved in
demanding physical activity) for five minutes, then at the end
of the effect the target is fully awake and aware again.
Otherwise, the target falls asleep and is next to impossible to
rouse for thirty minutes, after which he/she may be awakened
normally.  A target who is under the influence of the eye but
still awake attacks at -5 to hit in AD&D terms, -25% to his
chance to hit in S&G rules.

 
-------------------------------------
 
The views expressed in Tekumel Digest
are those of the individual authors only.
 
*********************
End of Tekumel Digest
*********************
