 
                           Tekumel Digest, Number 29
 
                          Wednesday, January 22nd 1992
 
Requests or comments: tekumel-request@ssdc.honeywell.com
Submissions: tekumel-digest@ssdc.honeywell.com
FTP sites: eklektik.cs.pitt.edu (130.49.2.135) in /pub/rpg/tekumel (Down)
           rainbow.cse.nau.edu (134.114.64.24) in /rpg/tekumel (uncompressed)
           potemkin.cs.pdx.edu (131.252.20.145) in /pub/frp/tekumel (compressed)
           quayle.mu.wvnet.edu (129.71.32.151) in /pub/rpg/uploads (compressed)
 
Today's Topics:
 
                               Word from Tsolyanu
                                  Magical books
                              magic items and books
----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Date: Wed, 22 Jan 92 10:38:54 -0600
From: "Albatross" <alberti@cs.umn.edu>
Subject: Word from Tsolyanu

     Since it has been a while, here is the latest news from the M.A.R. Barker
Thursday night campaign:

     When last we left our stalwart band of adventurers they were facing a
combined force of Yan Koriani, Saa Alaaqi and Tsolyani troops who were backed
by Lord Fu Shi'i's Weapon without answer.

     The ensuing battle was bloody and for the army of Prince Mirusiya, a
limited victory.  Most notable was the disabling of the Weapon Without Answer
by magical means, preventing the utter defeat of Mirusiya's troops.  Forces
dispatched by the beseiged Governor of Sunraya managed to arrive in time to
flank and break the legions sent by Emperor Dhich'une to destroy his half-
brother.

     The Prince continued south and battled a similar mixture of troops
in the foothills of the mountains to the northwest of Kayal Peak.  This
time no "cavalry" arrived, and the Prince's troops were routed.  However,
a band of soldiers, warriors and magic users broke through the lines and
managed to attain the moutains, leaving behind Dhich'une's troops.  The
Prince was with this force.

     This small force made its way southwest through the mountains, managing
to either avoid detection, surprise the small garrisons it encountered, or
pass itself off as a loyal Imperialist squad, all the while covertly escorting
Prince Mirusiya through the mountains.  Eventually this force reached the
Desert of Eyagi, and the Prince was delivered safely to Fasiltum.

     There he was met by Elara hiVriddi, late a prisoner of the Lower Catacomb
of Silent Waiting beneath Avanthar where she had been imprisoned since the
Vriddi Rebellion of 2340-1, held in a Ruby Eye.  This powerful figure of
Vriddi Independence (a veritable "Nelson Mandela" of her people) was now of
an age with Mirusiya, and they announced that she would become his First Wife
when he wins the Kolumejalim -- which will be held after Dhich'une the Usurper
is dethroned.  Fasiltum then declared itself independent of Tsolyanu until
such time as Mirusiya takes the throne.

     Our party then continued south towards Jakalla, delivering word of the
Prince's return to Tsolyanu and calling for support.  We found Dhich'une's
consolidation of the Empire well underway, with rebellion being ruthlessly
surpressed.

     In the summer of 2,364, the Mu'ugalavyani struck deep into the two 
Chakan Protectorates.  The Pe Choi region of Do Chaka was overrun, and Pan 
Chaka fell.  The nonhuman Pachi Lei, who hate the Red-Hats, were slaughtered
or forced to flee.  Tumssa, Chene Ho, and Paya Gupa proved tougher nuts to
crack, however, and Prince Eselne returned in time to lower Mu'ugalavyani
morale and compel them to withdraw.  The Salarvyani took the outpost cities
of Ru and Fenul in the southeast, and invade the Gilraya forests, but their
city-states are so disunited and embroiled in internecine rivalries, that
there is little chance of them taking Thraya or Jaikalor.

     The real danger is internal.  When the "Disposer of Meku" (as the Governor 
of that city is called) destroyed the local temples of Lords Sarku and Hru'u, 
the threat of civil war became urgent.  We heard of more riots in Jakalla, 
Bey Su, and Urmish.  Emperor Dhich'une ordered his armies both to Fasltum 
and to Meku.  Chaos is imminent.

     We managed to reach the palace of Prince Rereshqala, and from there were
dispatched to the Southern Continent, whence Princess Aremala had fled from
Avanthar when her half-brother seized power.  We were successful, but did not
return with Lord Muresh, formerly the leader of the Intelligence Arm of the
Omnipotent Azure Legion, who was away seeking support for the humans being
hosted by the Urunen.  We returned her to Rereshqala via Jaikalor, where we
were nearly detained by Vridekka hiTlelsu, Dhich'une's replacement as leader of
his new Omnipotent Azure Legion Intelligence force.  Unfortunately for Vridekka
the troops dispatched to seize the Princess were fooled into taking the wrong
woman, and the Princess escaped.  Having never met Aremala, Vridekka proceeded
to take the impostor before the Emperor himself and offer her for marriage.
Dhich'une and others in Avanthar determined that this was NOT Aremala, and
Vridekka lost some serious face.  The fate of the young woman, a K'Sarul
priestess named Sogai, is not something that should be described here.

     It is now the beginning of the year 2,365.  Mirusiya is in Fasiltum,
Princes Ma'in Kruthai is in Tumissa, Eselne is in Paya Gupa and both Aremala
and Rereshqala are ensconced on Rereshqala's estate east of Jakalla.
Discontent is brewing in many places, including the region between Jakalla and
Sokatis, where a Thumis Priest known as "The Young Master", one Sanjesh
hiKirusaya, has travelled extensively, speaking out openly against the
Emperor.  The phrase "this never would have happened under Hirkane" is enough
to get one impaled in this region.

     Thus passed the year of 2,364, the Year of the Worm Ascendant.

------------------------------
 
Date: Wed, 22 Jan 92 12:02:07 CST
From: "Brett Slocum" <slocum>
Subject: Magical books

I was just looking over the list of Magical Books for the first time in
quite a while. I noticed Kizhaga Dlittlumri "The Book of Five Fingers".
I couldn't help but notice the resemblance of this title to Musashi
Miyamoto's "The Book of Five Rings". Also, the powers granted by this
book are rather elementally oriented. Flight, Paralysis, regeneration from
Mu'agh acid, and fireballs (Air, Earth, Water, Fire). The fifth power
is to select any spell from Group II or III. The Five Rings of Minamoto
are Air, Fire, Water, Earth and Void. 

I wonder if this was intentional.

------------------------------
 
Date: Wed, 22 Jan 92 12:58:02 CST
From: "Brett Slocum" <slocum>
Subject: magic items and books

It is sometimes difficult to play S&G since the Referee's Manual
was never published. No descriptions of animals and creatures,
no magic items, no eyes, etc.

One question I've had is how do people handle the miscellaneous
magic items and the magical books from EPT in their S&G campaigns?
Are the effects merely translated to the new system, or have you
expanded on them? Perhaps Bob can tell us about the use of
Misc. magic items and books in Barker's S&G game.

Also, any items or books that you've created
on your own? New eyes? Has any players come up with, shall we say,
"unique" uses for the various magic items, eyes, amulets, etc.?

In a humorous campaign we played in many (MANY) years ago, a rather
funny eye appeared. We called it the Terrible Eye of Raging Juice.
It shot a stream of sticky, irritating liquid that we discovered
was orange juice. Apparently, the original purpose was similar to
the original purpose of the Eye of the Creeping Fog of Doom, which was
to produce any gas desired. This one was originally meant to produce
any liquid desired, but the method of selecting liquids had been lost.
It was great for temporarily blinding the oncoming hordes.

One character had found the Magical Chest of the Topaz God. He was
experimenting with it and its ability to swallow anything that could
be put into the opening. Well, he put the tip of the prow of a bireme
into it, and the chest sucked it in. Sometime later, we were being
chased by a bunch of unnamed (mostly unremembered) horrors, and
we didn't know what to do. Well, we reached the top of a hill and
the fellow opened the top of the Chest, aiming it down the hill.
The horrors were horrified to see a complete bireme sliding down
on top of them. That was the most offensive use of the chest I've
seen. Another time I recall someone else accidentally dropping a
Chest into Jakalla Harbor. It dropped the level of the bay by two
feet until the tide came in. We never did recover that one.

Disclaimer: I would like to comment that these things did not happen 
in Craig Smith's campaign. He was usually quite sensible, and I'm he
would not have let these situations occur. Then again, maybe he would.

 
-------------------------------------
 
The views expressed in Tekumel Digest
are those of the individual authors only.
 
*********************
End of Tekumel Digest
*********************
