
          Development & Procurement     From:     ftpmail@doc.ic.ac.uk@R11F@MRGATE@WEBCS
                 WEB Mail               Tel No:    
                                        Date:     11-Aug-1993 00:47am

TO:  PEARSE W R


Subject: wings.micro.umn.edu:/pub/tekumel/Digests/050 (get 050)

      Tekumel Digest, Number 50
 
      Thursday, Oct. 22nd, 1992
 
Requests or comments: tekumel-request@boombox.micro.umn.edu
Submissions: tekumel-submit@boombox.micro.umn.edu
FTP sites: rainbow.cse.nau.edu (134.114.64.24) in /rpg/tekumel (uncompressed)
    potemkin.cs.pdx.edu (131.252.20.145) in /pub/frp/tekumel (compressed)
    quayle.mu.wvnet.edu (129.71.32.151) in /pub/rpg/uploads (compressed)
 
Administrivia:

     As our capable and well-loved previous administrator has not been able 
to return, I have assumed these duties on an interim basis.   I will hand 
the reigns back should he return and desire them.

    Additionally, I shall endeavor to make the Tekumel Digest and other 
relevant materials available via the Internet Gopher in the near future.  
For those of you not familiar with the utility, the Internet Gopher is a 
user-friendly means of accessing data on the Internet, incorporating not 
only its own data protocol, but encompassing other popular formats, such as 
FTP and WAIS.  For more information, check out the newsgroup
   
    comp.infosystems.gopher

or write to 

    gopher@boombox.micro.umn.edu

for more information.  Gopher programs for IBM, Macintosh, NeXT and Unix 
platforms are available in the appropriate subdirectories for anonymous ftp 
from 

    boombox.micro.umn.edu

in the 

    /pub/gopher

directory tree.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Today's Topics:
  
                            It's back!
                            New products from TOME, Inc.
                            Prof. Barker retires
                            News from the Empire
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
It's Back!

Greetings!  After long absence, the list is back.  I'll try to do as 
thorough a job as our previous administrator.  If I'm not, let me know.

Bob Alberti (alberti@boombox.micro.umn.edu)
     
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
New Products from TOME, Inc.

Tekumel fans will be excited to learn that several new Tekumel game books 
have been or will soon be published by Theatre of the Mind Games.

As reported in Tekumel Digest 44, TOME released "Adventures in Tekumel,
Volume 1" in early April of this year.  It has consistently sold out as 
quickly as it arrived on store shelves.

Since that time, "Adventures in Tekumel, Volume 2" has been released in a 
blue cover during August (just prior to GenCon).  Check the cover page!

"Volume 3" is nearing publication.

"Volume 4", the final volume of "Adventures in Tekumel" is underway.

The "Tekumel Bestiary" by Victor Raymond, and illustrated extensively by 
Giovanna Fregni, is due out briefly from TOME.  I've seen it, and it is to 
die for.  All the creatures of Tekumel sorted by classes (such as land 
animals, insects, etc), and beautifully illustrated.  It makes me drool.
The cover art by Giovanna Fregni features the dreaded Zrne!

A book on the Temples of Tekumel is under way.  The cover art is 
particularly nice.

The actual game rules are being rewritten.  The original rules, some of 
the earliest out, lack the refinements brought to gaming by subsequent 
years of RPG publications.  They are considered cryptic and confusing
by everyone (including their author). 

The third Tekumel novel, "The Lords of Tsamra", has been put on hold by 
Professor Barker, as he has been quite involved in projects revolving 
around the game books.

If you wish to contact Theatre of the Mind Games, Inc., you may write to

  TOME, Inc.
  PO Box 60668
  King of Prussia, Penn  19406

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Professor Barker retires from teaching

     Professor M. A. R. Barker, Professor of South and Southeast Asian 
studies at the University of Minnesota, has retired from teaching at the 
age of 63.  Professor Barker is the author of the Empire of the Petal 
Throne (EPT) series of books and role-playing games.  He hopes to devote 
more time to EPT products in the future.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
News from the Empire

    Aremala surfaces in Tumissa

Princess Aremala Tlakotani has been discovered under the protection of the 
temple of Avanthe and safe within the walls of Tumissa.  She had previously 
been under the care of Prince Rereshqala in his estate outside Jakalla, 
having been rescued from the land of the Urunen on the Southern Continent 
by a stalwart band of adventurers.  She and her Imperial Sister Ma'in 
Kruthai are now both present in Tumissa.

    Ma'in Kruthai departs Governor's palace in Tumissa

Long a guest of the Governor of Tumissa, Princess Ma'in Kruthai was 
escorted from the Governor's Palace (some say under the objections of the 
Governor) to the Temple of Dlamelish in that city, where she now resides.  
Her departure was precipitated by the unexpected arrival in that city of 
several cohorts of the Army of the Translucent Emerald, long thought lost 
far to the east of the Empire.  How these troops arrived in western Tumissa 
is unknown.

     Emperor Dhich'une turns on Baron Ald

In an unexpected turn of events, Emperor Dhich'une has sought the 
assassination of the Baron Ald of Yan Kor, whose alliance was crucial to 
Dhich'une's assuming power over Tsolyanu and Yan Kor.  Ald escaped 
assassination by the Emperor of Tsolyanu, the second time for the General, 
who was betrayed decades ago and went on to unite the warring northern 
tribes into the nation of Yan Kor as a means to achieve revenge.  Ald's 
betrayal led to massive battles between his loyal Yan Koriani forces and 
Imperial forces in the city of Bey Su.  Ald was victorious.  The Temple of 
Sarku in that city was sacked, and the Governor and his sister impaled.

    New Prince Revealed

Following Ald's betrayal during the summer of the year 2,365, a new Prince 
of the Empire was revealed in the city of Bey Su.  Prince Taksuru 
Tlakotani, previously Taksuru hi Viridame, of the prestigious Cloak of 
Azure Gems clan, Worshipper of Ksarul, and accomplished statesman, 
ambassador and traveller, accepted the Gold and immediately declared 
Emperor Dhich'une Tlakotani, Eternal Splendour, a traitor to the throne and 
patricide, and called for his immediate overthrow.   Ald has vowed 
allegiance with the new Prince against Dhich'une, and brings with him to 
the alliance the infamous Lord Fu Shi'i and the valiant Lady Deq Dimani.

     Mridobu surfaces in Bey Su

Prince Mridobu Tlakotani, missing for eighteen months and long thought 
dead, has surfaced alive and unharmed in Bey Su.  Both worshippers of 
Ksarul, Prince Mridobu presented his Imperial Brother Taksuru Tlakotani to 
the Empire along with the Lady Kalusu hi Viridame in a ceremony in Bey Su.  
Mridobu's appearance and support of his brother has supplied Taksuru with 
an unexpectedly broad base of support, including the temples of Hnalla and 
Thumis in Bey Su.

     Dhich'une marches on Bey Su

Not unexpectedly, Taksuru's appearance and declarations brought about a 
quick response from Avanthar, and massive troop movements presaged a major 
battle north of Bey Su.  While the precise results of this battle are not 
known, Prince Taksuru has returned to Bey Su to quell uprisings by the 
commoners of that city, who engaged in general lawlessness when the city 
forces were called north to battle.

     Mirusiya still under siege in Fasiltum

Prince Mirusiya is still effectivly contained within the city of Fasiltum, 
where he resides with Lady Elara hi Vriddi.

     Eselne escapes assassination, remains in Paya Gupa

An assassination attempt against Prince Eselne, presumably by supporters 
of Emperor Dhich'une, was only narrowly averted.  Lord Gamulu hi Beshene, 
one of the mightiest healers in the Empire, was dispatched by magical means 
from Jakalla to Paya Gupa to treat the Prince's remains, which had been 
placed in magical stasis using a Magnificent Ruby Eye.  The action of the 
dessicating poison used against the Prince was so swift that only moments 
separated the first contact of the poison and the complete dessication of 
the Prince's body into unrevivifiable component molecules.  Lord Gamulu was 
barely able to restore the Prince to life, and both the Prince and Lord 
Gamulu were left seriously depleted.

     Where things stand

It is now late autumn of the year 2,365.  Many cities have been emboldened 
by Prince Taksuru's actions and his broad support to rise against the 
Emperor.  Eselne's supporters have been active in the Northwest around 
Meku.  The city of Tsuru is closed to all but Eselne's supporters.  Most 
cities are under Imperial Martial law, and travel is greatly restricted.  
The empire is nearly completely embroiled in civil war.
-------------------------------------
 
The views expressed in Tekumel Digest
are those of the individual authors only.
 
*********************
End of Tekumel Digest
*********************
