 
                           Tekumel Digest, Number 20
 
                           Friday, November 8th 1991
 
            Requests or comments: tekumel-request@ssdc.honeywell.com
                 Submissions: tekumel-digest@ssdc.honeywell.com
             FTP Archive site: eklektik.cs.pitt.edu (130.49.2.135) 
                         in directory /pub/rpg/tekumel
 
Today's Topics:
 
                            Adapting Torg to Tekumel
                               Re: Tekumel Digest, #19
----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Date: Wed, 6 Nov 91 19:45:14 GMT-0500
From: parham@masig5.ocean.fsu.edu (Fred Parham)
Subject: Adapting Torg to Tekumel

I have been working on adapting the Torg rules to the world of
Tekumel, either for adventuring in Tekumel or for having Tekumel be
part of Torg's Possibility Wars. Here are my ideas for axiom levels,
world laws, and how to integrate Tekumel into a Torg campaign.
Any comments?

Some of this material deals not with Tekumel in itself but with how it
interacts with the other worlds in the Torg campaign. If the Torg
system is used just for adventuring in Tekumel, the axiom levels are
not really necessary, since someone familiar with Tekumel can just
disallow anything inappropriate. The world laws contain rules
mechanics which deal with play in Tekumel.

--Axioms--

Social Axiom: 14
Much of the known part of Tekumel is controlled by five large empires:
Tsolyanu, Salarvya, Mu'ugalavya, Yan Kor and Livyanu. Society in these
empires and in many of the smaller states is rigidly stratified. A
large part of a person's place in life is determined by the clan into
which he or she is born. In Tsolyanu, women normally have no
independent legal existence; they are completely controlled by the
leaders of their clans, though they can declare themselves "Aridani"
(independent) and get the same rights and duties as a man. The Law of
Stagnation has a huge influence on Tekumeli society.

Spiritual Axiom: 20
The Gods are real on Tekumel, and they have been known to intervene
when called on. See the Law of Divine Intervention below for more
details.

Magical Axiom: 18
Magic is important in Tekumel. Each legion of the armies of the five
empires has its own wizards to aid it in battle. The temples and noble
clans also have wizards. Magic is affected by the laws of Planar Power
and Stagnation.

Technological Axiom: 25
Although the technology commonly in use on Tekumel is at a fairly low
level, there are still functional devices of the ancients which have
amazing powers; however, much of the knowledge of how to use these
devices has been lost. Technology is affected by the laws of
Decadence, Stagnation, and Planar Power.

1. Law of Divine Intervention

The gods are real on Tekumel, and they have been known to intervene in
human affairs when called on; however, the belief of their followers
does not produce any standardized miracles. The supernatural powers
possessed by some of the clergy are the same as those used by
independent magicians (of whom there are very few, and most of whom
were originally trained by the temples), the sorcerers of the nonhuman
races, and some of the devices of the Ancients. In Torg campaigns, any
miracle other than Ritual of Hope or Ritual or Purification used in
the cosm or realm of Tekumel creates a contradiction. Invocation of
the gods according to the standard rules is allowed, however.
Characters in the Tekumel realm or cosm can invoke the gods using
either Faith or Focus; characters native to Tekumel will normally have
only Faith.

2. Law of Decadence

There are many powerful technological devices in Tekumel, with
technological levels up to 25. There are also techno-magical devices,
allowed by the Law of Planar Power, with levels up to 31. These
devices have no trouble functioning (unless they have exhausted their
power supplies); however, the knowledge of how to operate, repair, and
build them has been lost. Any use of the Science skill or any Vehicles
skill to repair, build, or learn about any device above tech level 15
takes the "device is from cosm with a higher tech axiom" penalty given
under the description of the Science skill; tech 15 devices take half
that penalty; devices of tech 14 or less are unaffected.  The penalty
for learning how to operate a device does not apply to devices which
can be operated very simply; for example, the "Eyes", techno-magical
devices of the Ancients which are the size and shape of a human
eyeball, are operated simply be pressing a button.

In Torg campaigns, characters entering the Tekumeli realm on Earth
with high-tech devices will still know how to operate the devices if
they are fairly simple (for instance, if all it takes is pulling a
trigger), and they will remember what the devices are supposed to do;
however, they will forget how to operate, build, and repair complex
devices until they have made the appropriate Science or Vehicles skill
rolls. I suggest that the charactes be required to take a certain
amount of time after a failed roll before they can try again; perhaps
this could be governed by the dramatic skill use rules, with each card
flip taking a day.

3. Law of Stagnation

Societies on Tekumel have remained basically unchanged for millenia.
Use of the Persuasion skill to try to get anyone to do anything
that would lead to a fundamental change in society gets a -3 penalty,
as does use of the Science skill to invent things. A character
designing spells gets a penalty of -3 to all rolls, and the character
is stymied for those rolls. Creating spells to be cast on the fly
creates a contradiction in Tekumel.

4. Law of Planar Power

Magic in Tekumel derives its power from Tekumel's connections to
other dimensions. In Torg terms, these dimensions are part of
Tekumel's cosm but can only be reached by Extradimensional Gate or
similar spells. In some parts of Tekumel, the barriers between
dimensions are especially thick, and there is a penalty to the bonus
generated for magical skill rolls and rolls to apply the magical power
of ancient devices; this penalty can be as high as
-12 in some areas. In other areas, there is a concentration of magical
power and there are bonuses to magical rolls. Such areas are much
rarer than the areas which give penalties, and the bonuses only go up
to +3.

The extradimensional powers of Tekumeli magic are dissipated by metal.
Any character with at least 1.5 kg of nonmagical metal on his person
has a penalty to all magical skill bonuses of 2 times the Torg value
of the mass of the metal. Thus a character wearing 30 lbs. of metal
armor (Torg value 6) would have penalty of -12 to all magical skill
rolls.

The power of magic in Tekumel is such that it allows spells that can
be cast by the power of the mind alone. There are two ways of handling
this. The first is just to use spells with the gestures, incantations,
etc. taken away and the difficulty increased to compensate; the second
is to use the psionics rules, with the psionics depending on the magic
axiom instead of the social axiom. More details may follow after the
Space Gods book is published later this month.

The Ancients had devices which drew on extradimensional power. Some of
those devices still exist. They are generally more powerful and
predictable than spells; however, they are subject to the laws of
Decadence and Stagnation. The law of Planar Power allows devices of
tech level 26-31 to exist, but these devices also require a magic
axiom of at least 12; devices of tech level 26-31 from other cosms
will not function in Tekumel unless they are powered by magic. The
Occultech rules from the Tharkold sourcebook to be published in
February may be helpful here.

--Torg Link Difficulties--

For Tekumel characters in other cosms:
Core Earth   13
Living Land  20
Aysle        11
Cyberpapacy  10
Nile Empire   8
Nippon Tech  18
Orrorsh       7
Land Below   17
Space Gods   13

For characters from other cosms in Tekumel:
Core Earth   10
Living Land   8
Aysle         7
Cyberpapacy   7
Nile Empire   9
Nippon Tech  11
Orrorsh       9
Land Below    3
Space Gods   16

--Tekumel in Torg campaigns--

It would be possible to have an invading force from Tekumel as part of
the Possibility Wars. The Earth from which Tekumel was originally
settled would be assumed to be a alternate-cosm copy of Core Earth.  I
think it would be appropriate to have the High Lord leading the
invasion be a worshipper of one of Tekumel's Pariah Gods. Those gods
desire to draw all the universe into themselves (thereby destroying
it); that is also the goal of the Nameless One, the source of the
Darkness Devices which give Torg's High Lords their power. Perhaps the
High Lord could be one of the five empires' leaders who has fallen
into the worship of the Nameless-One-as-Pariah-God.

Fred Parham

------------------------------
 
Date:         Thu, 07 Nov 91 16:15:00 EDT
From: Bob Dushay <ROYER%NYSPI.bitnet@CUNYVM.CUNY.EDU>
Subject:      Re: Tekumel Digest, #19

A few points, I'm sure Mr. Alberti could cover easily:

1. The Egg of the World has been mentioned now and again in many Tekumel
publications, perhaps most notably in "Flamesong", where the priest
mistakes the tube-car for it.  Subadim the Sorcerer sought it and
apparently found a fragment of shell.  I consider myself a moderately
well-informed fan, and all I know is that the Egg is of immense sorcerous
power, and may have some virtue in time-travel magics.  It certainly
can effect the world strongly.

2.  The Pylons are mentioned in "The Book of Ebon Bindings", where they
are listed as an obstacle on one of the Demon Planes.  The description
says they should be passed with caution, although the author of the book
expresses puzzlement, as he claims they are no threat that he knows of.

3.  I would also like to hear more about Mr. Alberti's musings.  The
alternate universe theme of Tekumel explains alternate campaign worlds
very nicely, although the necessity of Avanthar is puzzling.

4.  Why is not Fu Shi'i's identity and that of his masters a mystery?
Presumably Mr. Alberti has either discovered these and considers them
unimportant, or Fu Shi'i is of less consequence than I believe.

5.  I would be less surprised of the pocket dimensions being caused by
the Mihalli than by the Gods.  However, the power needed to collapse each
of the worlds of Humanspace into individual pockets is so inconceivable
that I might argue for the natural stresses caused by the Three-Light drive
as hypothesized in the Sourcebook.  Still, I have been sufficiently
surprised by some of the other revelations on this digest that anything
is possible.

6.  Where is the hobbit from, pray tell?

 
-------------------------------------
 
The views expressed in Tekumel Digest
are those of the individual authors only.
 
*********************
End of Tekumel Digest
*********************
