
          Development & Procurement     From:     ftpmail@doc.ic.ac.uk@R11F@MRGATE@WEBCS
                 WEB Mail               Tel No:    
                                        Date:     11-Aug-1993 00:48am

TO:  PEARSE W R


Subject: wings.micro.umn.edu:/pub/tekumel/Digests/057 (get 057)



                           Tekumel Digest, Number 57

     Monday May 31st, 1993

Requests or comments: tekumel-request@boombox.micro.umn.edu
Submissions: tekumel-submit@boombox.micro.umn.edu
FTP sites: rainbow.cse.nau.edu (134.114.64.24) in /rpg/tekumel
           potemkin.cs.pdx.edu (131.252.20.145) in /pub/frp/tekumel
           quayle.mu.wvnet.edu (120.71.32.151) in /pub/rpg/uploads
           wings.micro.umn.edu (134.84.130.22) in /pub/tekumel/Digests

Gopher:   Fun & Games/
            Games/
              Fantasy Role-Playing Games/
                Empire of the Petal Throne RPG/
                  Digests/

Administrative junk:
---------------------------------------
Hi!  Hope you like this edition of the digest.  This issue will again be a
questions and answer edition.  Got a ton of mail on the last issue.
---------------------------------------

Topics for this issue:
                           Questions and Answers!
---------------------------------------
From: SIMONDSR@acfcluster.nyu.edu

   I regret that I'll be graduating from school and I will no longer
have e-mail access.  Please remove me from the mailing list.
   I have to say that I"m incredibly disappointed that Volume 3 of Swords
& Glory will not be coming out.  I've been waiting for it ofr years.
   THanks for keeping the Journal going.  It didn't help our campaign
much, but it was nice to know that there were others out there.
Rick Simonds

   Thanks for the encouraging words, Rick.  I am sorry to see you will be
leaving.  But look for volume three in the stores probably within the
next 2 or three years.




From: Henk.Langeveld@holland.sun.com (Henk Langeveld - Sun Nederland)

Hi, I'm Henk Langeveld, editor of the RuneQuest Digest/Daily.
May I recommend the scheme I've been using for the RQ Digest?
Since end of Jan. I've split the Digest into a formal Digest
and a Daily discussion list.  The discussion list is an automated
digest that gets sent out daily in chunks of around 22k.  
I now get 3 part issues regularly.

I chose this alternative, because a lot of people would drop out on 
a regular mail exploder, while a formal digest takes too much time
to produce, increasing turn-around time.  It has been a great method
for stimulating discussion and has boosted new ideas...

I just thought that I should share the ideas...

  I am looking into how to do this now.  Send me mail on how you like the
idea.  I don't know how to do it yet, but will check on it.



From: jjm@zycor.lgc.com (johnjmedway)
>>Gopher     Fun & Games/
>>              Games/
>>                Fantasy Role-Playing Games/
>>                  Empire of the Petal Throne RPG/
>>                    Digests/

Huh? What is this, and how (and where) do i use it?


     Gopher is a program "invented" at the University of Minnesota.  It is
a program that more easily alows you to use the internet.  It should be
available for FTP from somewhere.

>>  ---------------------------------------
>>  Hi!  Hope you like this edition of the digest.
>>  This is going to seem weird, but yes, there will be a minor
>>  change in the way the digest comes out.   One reader suggested that it
>>  come out a little more often and maybe be a bit smaller, rather than waiting
>>  a whole month and sending out a big digest.  SO, I will now try to send one
>>  out about twice a month.  I will do this for a couple months and see what
>>  the reaction is.



Once a month is way too seldom to remind people that this is active. Traffic
would fall (I guess to negative numbers ? ) below what it is now. Please up 
frequency.


     Already doing it!


>>  Swords and Glory
>>  Volumes 1&2                  These were published by Gamescience.
>>                               Volume 1 was a sourcebook, volume 2
>>                               was the rules set.  The missing Vol. 3
>>                               was to be a DMs guide of sorts.  There
>>                               are a few photocopied sets out there
>>                               VERY RARE!!!!!

Which was the blue and which the brown?

     The blue one was the sourcebook.  The brown one is the rules.

>>  Journal of Tekumel Affairs,
>>  The Imperial Military Journal
>>  The Imperial Courier         These were all publications put out
>>                               by Tekumel Games.  They were pretty
>>                               nice publications with a lot of material
>>                               in them.  Lots of problems with staff.

Are there any sources for reprints?

     To my knowledge there is no company producing reprints.

>>  Declaration of war           A copy of the document sent from Yan Kor
>>                               to the Seal Emperor to start the war.
>>                               seven colors on parchment


Can these still be had?


     No.  Again there is no company doing reprints.


>>  Personalized Deluxe          This was a document stating your character
>>  citizenship papers           was a citizen.


Same question.

     Same answer.


>>  The Gold of Glory            A copy of the  Tsolyani award.

What is this? I don't understand.

     The Gold of Glory is a medal and a document given by the Tsolyani
imperium fo doing something that is greatly appreciated by the Imperium.
Sort of like the Medal of Freedom given by the US government.


>>  Missum, Quadardaliqoi,
>>  Legions of the Petal Throne  Miniatures rules. I think they came out in
>>                               the order given.

I have the first two, but not Legions of the Petal Throne. Is this available
anywhere?

     Again, there is no company reprinting.  Try used game stores and
auctions at conventions.



From: P A Snow <P.A.Snow@gdr.bath.ac.uk>

Hi Keith,
   Thanks for getting an interesting answer to my question into the digest.
One aspect of my first and lost letter that I did not repeat in the second was
an appeal for examples of religious acts and ceremonies from the campaigns of
all the other readers of the Digest. I agree with the discussion in, I think,
digest 54 that we need more input from all the Tekumel campaigns out there. 
They are all real Tekumels and I'd love a jolt of inspiration from everyone out
there to generate ideas for my own campaign. How many subscribers are there now
by the way?

   I'm happy to kick off with two examples of acts of worship/trivia from
my Tekumel.
   Firstly, worshippers of Thumis should always pray for the inspiration
of Thumis to enter them before starting to read a new book. Secondly, 
followers of Ketengku, especially engineers and physicians, always mark places
in their scholarly reference books with bookmarks inscribed by the Eye  of 
Ketengku so that the feel the presence of their god as they go about their work.
This adds to your example of Vimuhla worshippers burning symbols into their 
chests before battle. Anyone care to add any more?

   One extra question. As a fair number of clans are arranged around a 
central business or profession, does this mean that most large mercantile
operations are run by single clans or are there large independent companies
owned by various clans? I have always assumed the former but the latter gives
scope for some interesting politics.

   Finally, as there are no immediate plans to republish the  linguistic
material on Tsolyani (as far as I know), is there any chances of a few informal
Tsolyani lessons being put into the Digest?  Just a few typical guidebook style
words and phrases would be great.

   I hope your getting lots of submissions. Look forward to hearing from
you.
Paul Snow

      Thanks for dropping a line.  The examples of rituals that you give
would probably be used by priests and the most devout people.  There are
a lot of people on Tekumel that are time servers. You know the kind of
person who goes to church only on high holy days.

      As for the clans question.  There are a few large businesses that
are owned by a single person who then gives part of his profits to his
clan.  As far as I know there are no inter clan businesses.

      I will check with the owner of the copyrights on the books, and see if
I can republish some of the stuff.

      Thanks again Paul.



From: GARBETT@UTKVX.UTCC.UTK.EDU

I keep seeing S&G Source Book Vol. 3 on price lists, but have never
seen a copy, even the latest flyer from PHD games has it listed. No game
store I deal with can seem to get a copy. Does anybody know what the deal
is on this?

A previous post mentioned a NW frontier Gazeteer, and wondered if it 
existed, well it does. I have a xerox copy of it. It is great. All kinds
of lead-ins to an infinite number of adventures. When running a scenerio
the gazeteer is one of my best sources for inspiration. If the rest of
Tsolyanu was mapped in such detail, it would be incredible.

Shawn Garbett

     The deal is that it is typeset and awaiting art.  It is in the hands
of Lou Zocchi and I don't know how long before it comes out.  It will more
than likely be put out by TOME when it does come out.

     The northwest frontier does exist and was published.  The northeast
frontier is the one that wasn't published.


From: martin@cs.uchicago.edu

You left out the various EPT-related articles which appeared in the
Strategic Review and the Dragon.  Some of these were reprinted in the
Tekumel-fan press.  Off the top of my head (I'm not at home right now), I
can remember:

SR #4 -- Tsolyani Names Without Tears (a name generator; I've found it's
better just to use a trigram correllation program).  Reprinted in Tekumel
Journal.

SR #6 -- War of Wizards Update (alternative rules for WoW).
SR #7 -- Seal of the Imperium (Tekumel Q&A and scurrilous goings-on).
TD #4 -- Special Tekumel Issue; much of this was reprinted in Tekumel
Journals, or the Best of the Journals (a short-lived publication).
TD #9? -- Seal of the Imperium.
TD #11? -- Seal of the Imperium.

Also various xeroxed sheets available sometimes at conferences, miniatures
battles, and the like.  The best is the xeroxed plans to the Temple of
Vimuhla at Katalal (?), the model constructed by some of Barker's players
circa 1976. (And still in existence somewhere?)

There was a special Tekumel issue of the Space Gamer that came out with the
release of Swords and Glory Volume II; it contains an interview with Barker
and various other stuff of interest.

The Man of Gold and Flamesong, both published by DAW Books and out of print
but easily available in the SF section of used bookstores.  How about an
update on the status of the Lords of Tsamra?!

Question for the readership at large: does anyone have a Metafont spec for
Tsolyani or any other alphabet?  How about a Macintosh font?

Charles Martin // martin@cs.uchicago.edu

     Thanks for the update, Charles.   I forgot about the xeroxed sheets.
I will be looking for the other items.

     There is a Tsolyani font out there for macintosh.  Prof. Barker has a
copy.  I will see if I can get ahold of it and mail it to people who request
it or find someplace to put it for gopher.


From:  Robert Smith <resmith@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu>

Congratulations on getting the Tekumel Digest up and going again. Just
when I got my modem working and got on line, the Digest ceased. So
I'm very glad to see it back up again.


I am in favor of a bi monthly Digest. I think a month is too long and 
people lose the thread of debates and conversations.

In the last issue David mentioned that the new rules are currently being
created. He said that the magic system was done. The main thrust seems to
be streamlining the S&G system.


I guess I would like more info on how the S&G system is being altered. Back
in '84 I purchased Vol II with great glee. I could hardly wait to get home
and delve in. Imagine my disapointment to find a totally unplayable system.
S&G has the worst case of *chartitis* that I've ever seen. For example,
there are over 20 charts associated with combat (and that's counting the
12 different damage tables as a single chart). Considering that the
group I play with are not die hard gamers, there was no way I would consider
trying to play S&G. I know of no one who uses S&G outside of Barker's
group. (I am sure there are some out there using S&G and I would
encourage you to post your experiences.)

What is this all leading up to? A comment on what I (Rob Smith) personnally
think a good system would have and not have. I am doing this not only to
get my own two cents in, but to get others to contribute as well. After
all, we're the ones who will have to use the material once it's published.

OK, let's get started:
1) CHARTS
Too damn many as I stated above. One should not have to consult charts for 
every action. I realize that Prof. Barker wants to use only d10, d20, and
d100, but this is nearly as restrictive as SJG's insistance on using only
d6s. I have to ask, what is the rationale for this? It does not save the 
players any money, since we all have all kinds of dice already. It requires
a multitude of charts that inherently slows the game. 

Charts should be used, IMO, to convey information briefly and concisely.
They should not obfuscate, but should clarify (as does that sentence). Most
games provide a weapons chart that indicates the damage, quickness, etc. of
a particular weapon. This info can be recorded on a character's sheet in a few
few seconds.
All of the info that players need to participate should ideally fit on a 
single double-sided sheet of paper at most (except magic). They should
not generally have to refer to anything beyond this sheet in most instances.
not have to refer constantly to the book to carry out common, everyday
actions.


2)STANDARDIZATION
I generally believe that functions in the game should be as standardized as
possible. For example, the roll for skill success in RQ is basically the same
no matter whether the skill is combat, agility, knowledge, perception, etc.
Granted, one gives up a bit in 'realism' but the players and GM can quickly
learn the system and there is no "Wait while I look up how to make an 
endurance roll" because it is different than all other rolls.



3)CHARACTER GENERATION
Adventures on Tekumel are interesting but I don't really think they are
practical for group gaming. Not all of my players will have all the books, and
in any case, most of use view all aspects of the role play game a group activity
including character creation. I hope that the new system will have a more
concise character generation system. I also hope that the system will 
accomodate various types of characters from differing levels of society.
There is also the debate about the random vs. deliberate method. I think that
this should be addressed as well.

4)COMBAT
This is the core of the system in many ways. An rpg with a bad combat system
is a cripple. Combat is not everything, of course (we have played for months
on end without a combat), but it is the flaw that will show up the most.
The S&G system was very odd, in my opinion. It was extremely detailed with
regard to attack modifiers, criticals, and fighting styles. On the other
hand, wounding and damage got short shrift. No hit locations at all, even
as an option. In addition, time was accounted for in the most minute detail
(different action points for different actions), which sounds good in the 
abstract, but bogs down very quickly as players or the ref must constantly
refer to the book to see how long it takes to do something.

This is my opinion on combat: it should be fast and deadly. Players should
have to think twice before jumping into a melee. A single blow from a dagger
should be able to kill any human (and not just a critical hit either).
I think some of the detail on attacks modifiers and time allocation should
be given up and optional hit locations should be included. I feel that
hit locations add flavor to the game. After all "...and then Chutek took
a blow to the leg and went down, but then I smashed the dirty Ssu's arm
with my mace..." sounds better than "...and then Chutek took 20 points of
damage and lost an action, but then I did 50 points to the Ssu with my 
mace..."



5)MAGIC
This is probably the point on which most people will disagree with me. The
spell list in S&G was pretty neat, but it too, IMO, was overly complex. I 
feel that players should generally be able to remember what their spells
are capable of without constant reference to the magic book. All of the 
spells should be boiled down to their essence. A single spell should do one
basic thing. This basic thing may be altered with level of proficiency,
but it should still be the same basic thing. A good example is the 
Clairvoyance/Clairaudience spell. It allows the cast to a) see through
walls, b) hear through walls, and c) make wall more difficult to see and
hear through. To me this is three spells, albeit related spells. The way
spells work in S&G, each magic user must have his own copy of the book.
They are just too complex for most people, who have real lives, to  memorize.

6)CONCLUSION
Well, those are my thoughts on what the new system should be like. I hope
that it is not just a paring down of S&G. I would really like to be able 
to use the system that is created specifically for Tekumel. But if the 
designers only hack off some of the extranious material from S&G, but 
don't really, REALLY improve the system, I'm afraid Tekumel will again be
consigned to the back of the gaming shelves.

Let's have some comment out there about this issue. Write David and tell him
what kind of system you want. Most of us are using other systems already
(RuneQuest, GURPS, AD&D, Rolemaster, and others), and I'm sure we would all
like to be able to speak the same language as far as game system goes. But
I think the designers should realize that if we, the consumers, are
dissatisfied with the game system, we will either drop Tekumel or
ignore the new system, taking what we can use, and continue with our own
modified systems.

I have high hopes for a renaissance of Tekumel, but I am worried about the 
game system. I write this not to attack Tekumel, the game designers, or
Prof. Barker, but to simply state the opinion of one who has been a follower
of Tekumel and avid Tekumel gamer since 1975. Even if the new game is
a flop, I'll continue to game in the world and derive enjoyment from it.
However, I would much prefer to see it become a great success and get the
recognition that it deserves.
End of Discourse.
(I can't say flame, that would place me as an adherent of Vimuhla)
Rob Smith


From: Robert Smith <resmith@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu>

Keith,
My apologies. I repeatedly refered to you as David for some incomprehensible
reason. No offense intended.
Regards, 
Rob Smith


     No offense taken.  Your letter is going to be given directly to the
design team working on the new rules system.  One point I would like to make
is that you have to look at the time that the original system came out.
At that time in the begining of roleplaying designers thought you had to
have a table for every action so that people would be forced to game.
Unfortunately it worked exactly the opposite way.  By the way, just so you
know, even we at professor Barker's games don't use the rules.  We use
the sourcebook, and the spell lists, but that is about where it ends.  We
prefer role playing.  There have been many nights where not a single die was
rolled.  Thanks for the comments.  I will try to let you know how your
letter is received.



From: David Cheng <drcheng@sales.stern.nyu.edu>
A question for all you Tekumelphiles:

  How "close" are the gods to the world, and to their worshippers in 
particular?  I have seen contradictory evidence, and would like to 
hear your opinions.

The Gods are Distant and Uncaring
   Some veteran EPTers have told me they feel the gods are distant. 
They delight in the way the temples plot and scheme against each other,
but their role is very passive.  Perhaps the conflict between the 
temples should be viewed like the situation in Northern Ireland:
a _political_ conflict under the guise of a religious one.

The Gods take an Active Interest
   My first bit of hard (rules) evidence would be the relatively high
chance of Divine Intervention / Retribution, when the gods are invoked.
I don't have the table in front of me, but I remember the 
percentages as being very high.  Does this mean the gods are watching
closely, and care enough about their worshippers to intervene in the
affairs of the world often?
   My softer evidence would be cultural.  Obviously (to me at least,
perhaps you disagree with this point) religion is one of _the_ major
pillars of Tekumel societies.  When a culture feels it gets good 
benefits from a religion, it worships even more.  A culture that
looks to other areas of society to fulfill the same needs worships
less.  Using this logic, since the peoples of Tekumel worship so much,
they must be getting lots of benefits from their religions!
Comments please!
-David Cheng


      Thanks David.   A couple thoughts.  First, You have to remember that
the Gods are sort of at war with each other.  They are looking for any kind
of foothold they can get.  They pay a lot of attention to the temples and
less to the individual.  That is not to say that they don't look at
individuals, but that they hold them in a less esteem.  By the way, the high
percentage of divine intervention is more likely because it gives a DM
a chance to help out players who get in a real jam.  The original rules had
a lot of escape valves like this.



 drcheng@sales.stern.nyu.edu
Subject: "The Eye of All-seeing Wonder"
... is a British Tekumel fanzine.  I just picked up Issue #1 (Autumn 92)
at The Compleat Strategist here in NYC.
It looks good; like these guys really know what they're talking about.

Contents:
Welcome to Jakalla
    An intro scenario
The Epic of Hrugga
   The deeds of the favourite Tsolyani folk-hero
The Relative Status of Legions
   A prestige ranking, based on reputation, military victories, etc
The Profession of Arms
   How your social status affects how high you'll rise in the military
The Clan of the Iron Plume
   A scribe's clan-house
Tusmikang Khawenlitusmi
   Different fighting styles for GURPS-Tekumel
Best Savoured Cold
   Stats for Hluss and Ssu for RuneQuest
The Excellent Travelling Volume
   A brief piece on the land of Jannu
*Tirikelu*
   A custom-set of rules for Tekumel
   (Opinion: influenced a tiny bit by Chaosium's _Pendragon_,
      from what we can see so far.  This is only a small part of
     the rules)
I wholeheartedly reccommend it!
Contact:
Dave Morris - Editor
1 Rusham Road
London
SW12 8TJ
England

2.50 Pounds Sterling in the UK, 3 pounds outside
   (Is that about $5 these days ???)
-David Cheng


     Thanks for the info!  I will be sending out a letter this afternoon.
That also does it for this issue of the Digest.  I keep saying I am going
to get an article in the next issue, but the questions are so much fun that
I don't get around to it.  Keep those letters coming!!!!  Untill next time
'May you always live upwind of the chlen pens.'



q

:
